As many as 90 million Americans have already cast ballots in the US presidential election in a new record, according to data released on Saturday. The high number of early voters means that, with only three days of campaigning left, the contest is poised to witness the largest turnout in at least a century. Concerns about exposure to the coronavirus at busy election day voting sites on November 3 have led to a surge in people voting by mail or at early, in-person, polling stations — reflecting the high stakes and the impact of the pandemic. Read more: US campaign finance: The expensive road to the White House President Trump defended his response to the pandemic, telling his supporters in Pennsylvania that a vaccine was 'weeks away' President Donald Trump and his challenger, Joe Biden, were barnstorming through key states in the Midwest and Southeast on Saturday in a bid to mobilize the remaining undecided voters. Opinion polls show Republican Trump trailing former Vice President Biden across the country, although a tight race is expected in several battleground states. Trump — who has repeatedly claimed without evidence that mail-in ballots are susceptible to fraud — held four rallies in the swing state Pennsylvania. He cautioned about "bedlam in our country" if no clear winner emerged on election night, adding without evidence that it could take weeks to sort out a result and "very bad things'' could happen in the meantime. Trump also criticized Biden, saying the Democratic candidate would shut down the state's fossil-fuel industry, a major source of local jobs. He also mocked his opponent for criticizing the White House's response to the coronavirus pandemic. "All he talks about is COVID, COVID. He's got nothing else to say. COVID, COVID," Trump said. Read more: Which political party benefits from mail-in voting? Meanwhile, Biden and his former boss Barack Obama made their first joint appearance of the campaign in two "drive-in" rallies in Michigan. "I don't care how hard Donald Trump tries. There's nothing — let me say that again — there's nothing that he can do to stop the people of this nation from voting in overwhelming numbers and taking back this democracy," Biden said. "We're done with the chaos, the tweets, the anger, the failure, the refusal to take any responsibility." Former President Obama called out Trump's pandemic response, saying that 140,000 American lives would have been saved if the president had taken an approach similar to Canada's. The virus has killed more than 220,000 people in the US, more than in any other country. "This isn't a sporting event. This is life or death," Obama said. He added that Trump was set to be the first president in almost a century to preside over a net job loss. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3kZfr Economists at Stanford University on Saturday released an estimate that President Trump's rallies held from June to September had led to more than 30,000 additional coronavirus infections and possibly as many as 700 deaths. The study, however, has not been peer-reviewed and was based on a statistical model and not actual investigations of COVID-19 cases. Read more: Russia, Iran meddling with US elections: 'Hacking of our hearts and minds' The Biden campaign was quick to jump on the findings, accusing the president of not caring "about the very lives of his strongest supporters." The Trump campaign did not immediately respond to the findings. Mathias Braschler and Monika Fischer took 82 portraits on their extensive road trip across the US. The photos show people of all ages, ethnic groups, professions and genders. The subjects are each portrayed in the same way: in front of a plain white canvas. There is no comment. "Divided We Stand" is the title of the photo book by Mathias Braschler and Monika Fischer. The division refers to the political polarization in the US, which is best exemplified on a map. On the one hand, there are the "blue" coastal states, where the majority support the Democrats; on the other, much of the middle is comprised of the "red" states, the Republican heartland. To capture this division, the Swiss couple covered about 15,000 miles (24,000 kilometers) while crisscrossing the US. Their epic journey encompassed 40 states stretching from Montana in the north to Texas in the south, where the above picture was taken. The photographers spent months on the road, traveling with a mobile home equipped with an integrated photo studio. Fischer and Braschler meticulously set up the studio anew every time they took a new portrait to ensure they always had the exact same light and background. Not only did they fascinating pictures on their road trip, but also asked the people they portrayed about their political leanings. What their subjects had to say about politics, society and their country is documented in the photo book — opinions as diverse as the people photographed. The photographers and their son live in New York and Switzerland. The couple has lived in the US for many years, but their road trip has broadened their perspectives on the country, especially the fact that so many Americans support Donald Trump. Author: Maria John Sánchez dvv/nm (AFP, AP, Reuters) 