At one demonstration last weekend, a young woman, who introduced herself as "Jana from Kassel" drew a shocking parallel: "I feel," she said, "like Sophie Scholl because I've been active in the resistance movement for months." Sophie Scholl and her brother Hans founded the White Rose group in 1942. Together with other members of the group they were arrested and executed after being caught distributing anti-Nazi leaflets. Michael Blume, Anti-Semitism Commissioner in the southern state of Baden-Württemberg, told DW how historically unfounded he believes the comparison to be: "In an honest comparison, the woman would immediately have had to concede that Sophie Scholl would never have been able to take part in an officially-registered demonstration. Indeed, a demonstration under police protection." Student Sophie Scholl was executed by the Nazi regime At another gathering, a girl of just eleven explained how in response to a ban on large social gatherings, she apparently celebrated her birthday in secret in order to avoid being snitched on by the neighbors. "I felt like Anne Frank when she had to stay quiet as a mouse to avoid being exposed." And some protestors have held up placards reading: "Anne Frank would have been on our side." Anne Frank was a young Jewish girl who, together with her family, spent months in hiding in German-occupied Amsterdam before she was betrayed and later murdered in a concentration camp.  In 1933, Anne Frank and her family fled from Germany to the Netherlands to escape the Nazis. In the Second World War, she had to go into hiding under the German occupation. For two years, she lived concealed in the secret annex of a house in Amsterdam. But someone betrayed her: On August 4, 1944, her family was found, arrested and deported to Auschwitz. Anne Frank (front left) had a sister Margot (back right) who was three-and-a-half years older than she was. Her father, Otto Frank, took this photo on Margot's eighth birthday in February 1934, when the family was already in exile in the Netherlands. Anne's father was able to found a company in Amsterdam. It had its headquarters in this building (c.). Otto organized the "secret annex" above and behind the premises. The family of four lived there from 1942 to 1944, together with four other people on the run from the Nazis. It was here that Anne Frank wrote her world-famous diary. The Anne Frank House has been a museum since 1960. From the start, Anne wrote in her diary almost every day. It became a kind of friend to her, and she called it Kitty. The life she led was completely different from her previous, carefree existence. "What I like the most is that I can at least write down what I think and feel, otherwise I would completely suffocate," she penned. Anne Frank and her sister were taken from Auschwitz to Bergen-Belsen on October 30, 1944. More than 70,000 people died in this concentration camp. After the liberation of the camp, the victims were transported to mass graves under the supervision of British soldiers. Anne and Margot Frank were among those who died there from typhus, at an unknown date in March 1945. Anne was just 15 years old. Anne's tombstone also stands in Bergen-Belsen. This Jewish girl from Frankfurt had imagined her life differently. "I don't want to have lived in vain like most people. I want to bring joy and aid to the people who live around me, but who don't know me all the same. I want to live on, even after my death," she wrote in her diary on April 5, 1944. Her great dream was to become a journalist or author. Thanks to her father, her diary was published on July 25, 1947. An English version was brought out in 1952. Anne Frank became a symbol for the victims of the Nazi dictatorship. "We all live with the aim of attaining happiness; we all live differently, but the same." — Anne Frank, July 6, 1944. Author: Iveta Ondruskova / tj These are just two examples of how opponents of coronavirus restrictions have instrumentalized history by drawing false comparisons between themselves and victims of Nazi persecution and terror. Protesters have also worn Stars of David — like those that Jews were forced to wear by the Nazis — carrying the wording: "ungeimpft" ("not vaccinated.") Men in concentration camp uniforms were seen holding up signs reading "vaccination makes you free" — a cynical reference to the notorious "work makes you free" sign at the entrance to Auschwitz and other Nazi concentration camps. Read more: Anti-Semitism in Germany increased due to coronavirus protests "Comparisons of this kind are intended to suggest that restrictions on people's fundamental rights imposed in response to the coronavirus pandemic might lead to a 'corona dictatorship' that will turn people into victims in just the same way as the persecution and annihilation carried out by the Nazis," says historian Jens-Christian Wagner. He adds: "It all makes an appalling mockery and a trivialization of the crimes committed by the Nazis." 'Work makes you free' was the cynical message at the entrance to several Nazi concentration camps Michael Blume calls it, "victim envy and guilt reversal." It is not only that the demonstrators, "themselves want to be recognized as victims." It is also that Jews are accused of stoking a "culture of guilt" and joining forces with the democratically-elected government, which is in turn identified with the Nazis." The protesters have adopted the German term "Querdenken" ("lateral thinking") to style themselves as a shunned and an oppressed segment of society that is willing to go against the Berlin establishment on how best to tackle the coronavirus crisis. Click onto the "Querdenken" Website and this is what you will find: "We are democrats. In our movement, there is no place for right-wing extremism, left-wing extremism, fascist or inhuman tendencies." Still, people are repeatedly seen at their gatherings bearing the black-white-red Imperial Flag widely associated with radical nationalism. "Querdenken" founder Michael Ballweg rejects suggestions that the movement has too much in common with right-wing extremists: "We can't stop individuals with extremist views from taking part in our rallies." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3lX0W Historian Wagner believes the danger posed by movement should not be played down. It remains, he says, "very heterogeneous. But what brings all the different strands together is openness towards the right — and a willingness to spread conspiracy theories." Felix Klein, Germany's national Anti-Semitism Commissioner, says the spectrum of views among coronavirus deniers includes: "esoteric enthusiasts, non-medical healers, peaceniks, members of the 'Citizens of the Reich' movement, and unabashed right-wing militants — all using the demonstrations to mobilize their followers." There are also overlaps between the anti-coronavirus movement and the largest opposition group in the German parliament, the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD). Their members in the Bundestag have compared the government's Infection Protection Law with the Enabling Act of 1933 that allowed Hitler to seize absolute power in Germany. Even before the outbreak of the coronavirus, the AfD had already tried to identify figures from anti-Nazi resistance circles with their party. Among them: Claus von Stauffenberg, the German officer who played a central role in the 1944 attempt to assassinate Hitler. In 2017, a regional chapter of the AfD used the following slogan: "Sophie Scholl would have voted AfD." And next to a photo of Scholl — a quote from her: "Nothing is less worthy of a people of culture, than submitting without resistance to an irresponsible ruling clique that is in itself in the grip of dark instincts." The black, white, and red flag Imperial Flag seen at anti-coronavirus rallies Jens-Christian Wagner believes that Jana, the young woman who made the controversial comparison, "really does see herself as part of a tradition that goes back to Sophie Scholl." And, he says, this shows that it's simply not enough to just learn names and dates from history. What we need, especially in our schools, is to teach an awareness of history. "Which means understanding historic processes as well as causes and consequences. That is, understanding how our own lives are determined by history." But Stephan Kramer, head of the Office for the Protection of the Constitution in the eastern state of Thuringia, says the young women's failure to understand the gravity of her remarks is no accident: "It's the perfidious result of a long chain of shifts in the discourse and deliberate historical revisionism based on the teachings of the New Right," for which, says Kramer, young people are especially receptive. Read more: Germany steps up the fight against Holocaust denial Historian Jens-Christian Wagner, meanwhile, asks whether there might be a fundamental problem in Germany's culture of commemoration: "Have we tended to focus too much on identifying with Nazi persecution and terror rather than asking why these people became victims?" We must, he concludes, also try to understand what motivated the perpetrators, "and why under the Nazis most Germans were more than willing to play their part. This may also help to understand why Jana from Kassel identifies so fervently with the victims that she sees herself as persecuted." This article was translated from German. Seventy-five years ago, a bomb exploded in the Führer's Wolf's Lair headquarters, which was supposed to kill Adolf Hitler. The assassination attempt failed; Hitler survived. The resistance fighters involved were executed in the days following the attempted coup. Claus Graf Schenk von Stauffenberg was instrumentally involved in the bomb plot of July 20, 1944. As early as 1942, the officer realized that the Second World War could no longer be won. In order to save Germany from imminent destruction, Stauffenberg and other Wehrmacht officers decided to overthrow the Hitler regime. Fundamental political reform in Germany was the goal of the Kreisau Circle. Helmuth James Graf von Moltke and Peter Graf Yorck von Wartenburg (pictured) were the driving forces behind the movement. Some members of the Circle joined the July 20 plot in 1944 and were tried and sentenced to death after the assassination attempt failed. Starting from 1942 a group of Munich students, led by siblings Hans and Sophie Scholl, tried to resist the National Socialists. The group, which called itself the White Rose, distributed thousands of leaflets denouncing the crimes of the Nazi regime. In February 1943 the Gestapo found the siblings and sentenced them to death. In 1939, carpenter Georg Elser fastened explosive devices behind Hitler's lectern in the Munich Bürgerbräu brewery. The bomb detonated as planned. However, since Hitler's speech was shorter than expected, he had already left the hall before the explosion. Seven people died and 60 more were injured. Elser was arrested on the same day and taken to Dachau concentration camp, where he died in 1945. During the Second World War, Berlin manufacturer Otto Weidt employed mainly blind and deaf Jews. His broom and brush bindery was considered an "important defense business" and could therefore not be closed down by the Nazis. Weidt managed to provide for his Jewish employees throughout the war and protect them from deportation. Numerous artists and intellectuals already turned against the regime when Hitler came to power in 1933. Many who did not want to adapt or openly oppose the system fled into exile. Others, such as the Berlin cabaret group Katakombe, openly criticized the regime. In 1935 the theater was closed by the Gestapo and its founder Werner Finck was imprisoned in the Esterwegen concentration camp. The Swing Jugend or Swing Youth, regarded the American-English way of life, represented by swing music and dance, as a clear opposition to the Nazi regime and the Hitler Youth. In August 1941 there was a wave of arrests, especially in Hamburg, of Swing Youths, many of whom were taken into custody or deported to special youth concentration camps. The Gestapo used direction finders to track down illegal transmitters used by resistance groups. In the summer of 1942, more than 120 members of the Rote Kapelle were arrested. This group, centered around Harro Schulze-Boysen and Arvid Harnack, wanted to help Jews document the crimes of the Nazi regime and distribute leaflets. More than 50 members were sentenced to death and executed. On July 19, 1953, the ceremonial unveiling of the Memorial to the German Resistance took place in Berlin in the inner courtyard of the Bendlerblock building, the place where Count Stauffenberg was executed after the failed Hitler assassination. In addition, however, the memorial also commemorates all the other courageous men and women who stood up against the Hitler regime.  