French President Emmanuel Macron criticized the UN Security Council and called on European nations to show greater independence, ahead of a meeting with US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, in an interview with the Paris magazine Le Grand Continent. "I have to say that the UN Security Council no longer produces useful solutions today," Macron said. France is one of the five permanent members of the UN Security Council alongside the United States, China, Russia and Britain. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3l0iW "We need to reinvent useful forms of cooperation –  coalitions of projects and players – and we need to modernize our structures and create a level playing field for everyone," said Macron. "In order to do that, we also need to reconsider the terms of the relationship: I believe the second way forward is a strong and political Europe." His comments follow a pre-US-election Politicoeditorial written by German Defense Minister Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, calling for stronger cooperation between Europe and the United States: "Illusions of European strategic autonomy must come to an end: Europeans will not be able to replace America's crucial role as a security provider," Kramp-Karrenbauer wrote. Read more: Joe Biden speaks to leaders of Germany, France and Britain Macron called Kramp-Karrenbauer's comments a "historical misrepresentation" and said he "profoundly disagrees" with the idea of European strategic autonomy being an illusion. "Fortunately, if I understood things correctly, the chancellor does not share this point of view," Macron wrote. "But the United States will only respect us as allies if we are earnest, and if we are sovereign with respect to our defense." The push to encourage European countries to spend more on defense and to do more within NATO has been a theme of Donald Trump's presidency but it also dates back to previous US administrations, which encouraged similar steps, albeit with a softer tone. But Europeans often clash over precisely how to achieve this, and what degree of autonomy is desirable. Offering further support for his push for greater European sovereignty, Macron said that American and French values "are not quite the same." "I am sure of one thing: we are not the United States of America," he said. "We have, for example, a preference for equality that is not found in the United States of America ... We have an attachment to social democracy, to more equality, our reactions are not the same. I also believe that culture is more important here, much more." Read more: Opinion: Trans-Atlantic romanticism ends with Donald Trump Regarding the recent US election, however, Macron called the shift to Joe Biden's presidency an opportunity work on mutual understanding that "we Europeans are continuing to build our own autonomy, just as the United States and China are doing for themselves." This is not the first time Macron has called for greater European independence. Macron sparked controversy last year when he called the NATO defense pact "brain dead" amid Trump's tenure. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3UH22 Macron's comments come ahead of his meeting with Pompeo, who has staunchly defended US President Donald Trump and claimed a "smooth transition to a second Trump administration." Pompeo arrived in Paris on Saturday at the start of a seven-nation trip to US allies. Pompeo is also set to meet separately with his French counterpart, Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian. Read more: Trump hints at admitting Biden victory — and then backtracks While Trump and his supporters still say that the election was "stolen" and have alleged widespread voter fraud, most world leaders, including Macron, have acknowledged Biden as the victor. Macron was one of the first to congratulate Biden publicly and over the phone. French presidential aides said it was Pompeo who sought the meeting with Macron, and that it was granted "in full transparency with President-elect Joe Biden's team." Read more: America is back? — Joe Biden's 5 biggest economic challenges No press conferences are planned after Pompeo's meeting with Macron. The leaders are set to discuss Trump's plans to speed up the withdrawal of US troops from Iraq and Afghanistan, in the face of a rising number of jihadist attacks, as well as US withdrawal from the Iran nuclear deal. Before the scheduled meetings, Pompeo laid a bouquet of red, white and blue flowers at a memorial to victims of terrorism at a Paris landmark, the Hotel des Invalides. After Paris, Pompeo will head to Istanbul, as well as Israel, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Georgia. Putin's spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters that the Kremlin will refrain from commenting on Biden's victory until legal challenges to the election are resolved and the result is official. "Certain legal procedures are coming there, which were announced by the incumbent president, therefore this situation is different, so we consider it correct to wait for the official announcement." On November 13, China congratulated Joe Biden on his victory nearly a week after he was declared the winner of the US presidential election. "We respect the choice of the American people," China's foreign ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin said. He added: "At the same time, the result will be confirmed according to US laws and procedures." The right-wing president had said he would be the first leader in the world to congratulate Donald Trump. But Bolsonaro has remained silent on Biden. "I think the president is waiting for this imbroglio over fraudulent votes to be resolved," Vice President Hamilton Mourao told reporters. Bolsonaro will congratulate Biden "at the right time" and see what happens with Trump's lawsuits. Lopez Obrador has said he was bound by the constitution from offering his congratulations to the winner until the legal disputes were sorted out, reiterating an earlier posture. "How can a president of Mexico become a judge and say: 'This candidate won'?" Lopez Obrador told a news conference. He briefly referred to Biden as the "possible president-elect", before emphasizing Mexico took no side. There has been no response to Biden's results from Kim. North Korean state media has been silent on the US elections as of Monday. But Pyongyang made no mention of Donald Trump's 2016 victory either until two days after his election. In the past, Kim has called Biden "a fool of low IQ." Biden, meanwhile, has described Kim as a "thug." The far-right anti-immigration Slovenian Democratic Party leader, who prematurely hailed Trump as the winner of the election long before the vote counts were near completion, is yet to congratulate Biden. Jansa has repeated allegations of voter fraud carried out by Democrats. He has tweeted, however, that Slovenia hoped for "friendly relations" with Washington. Author: Melissa Sou-Jie Van Brunnersum lc/msh (AFP, dpa)