In the small German village of Stiege, builders are about to begin digging for the town's new chapel. "This will be something really special for the entire region," says Regina Bierwisch, spokeswoman for the Stiege Stave Church Association. The new chapel will, in fact, be an old one. Read more: German Catholic Church is losing priests and parishes A few kilometers from Stiege, in a forest, next to some ruins, stands one of the most beautiful stave churches in Germany. Stave churches are wooden buildings with roofs that rest on load-bearing wooden columns or staves. While they are a common sight in Scandinavia, they are rare in Germany. The roof of the church is rotten, thick metal sheets protect the windows from vandalism. A coarse steel door blocks the entrance. But in a year's time, the wooden building will shine with new splendor in Stiege's town center, right by the train station. Retired teacher Regina Bierwisch (R) is interested in historical architecture This stave church in the highland region of the Harz mountain range in the state of Saxony-Anhalt in central Germany was built 115 years ago. Its inauguration was attended by Prince Albert of Prussia. It was built as part of the "Albert House," a sanatorium for patients with lung diseases which was cutting-edge at the time. The location was not accidental: The large complex was built in the remote forest for those with pulmonary tuberculosis so they would not infect others. The complex continued to serve patients with lung diseases after the Prussian Empire fell. Then after World War II in what became East Germany, or the German Democratic Republic (GDR), it was turned into a specialized hospital and later, from 1991 to 1993, a rehabilitation clinic, before finally closing. In the new millennium, plans for a spa hotel fell through. The building fell into decay and disrepair before a major fire ripped through the complex in 2013 — but the small wooden church was spared. The 'Albert House' next to the small wooden church, was destroyed by fire Since 2011, conservation work has been underway and Regina Bierwisch and others became active in preserving the church. "The building is something special. It must be preserved and it must be used," says the retired teacher. Bierwisch says she is particularly interested in the cultural and historical significance of the chapel. "I am not a member of the church. But it's good that I can still advocate for such a sacred building." In 2014, some locals founded a support group to conserve the building, the association then acquired the timber construction and was assigned a plot of land where it could be moved. People from all walks of life, believers and non-believers alike, were involved in the project. When the interior of the stave church was cleared out in mid-October, 30 volunteers showed up. Karsten Höpting, the pastor for Stiege and the neighboring villages, says that was "very remarkable." Many volunteers showed up to help with the project But Höping is also aware there are concerns in the long-established Protestant community of Stiege, which has its own church, right next to the small castle in the center of the village. He hopes there will not be any competition and that the old stave church could become an attractive wedding church and tourist highlight. Ronald Fiebelkorn, center-right Christian Democrat mayor of Oberharz am Bracken, told DW that he was impressed by the commitment of the helpers at Stiege. "In their spare time, people are making an effort to preserve cultural heritage like this," he says. He believes that it has definitely strengthened the village community. Fiebelkorn remembers with a smile how he and some members of the support association presented the idea and concept to the state government of Saxony Anhalt and asked for financial help. "At first they just laughed at us in [state capital] Magdeburg," he says. But nobody is laughing anymore. The association organized subsidies from many sides in order to raise €1.1 million ($1.3 million) for the church's renovation. Among the sponsors are the German government's culture commission, the Braunschweig culture foundation, a local Harz bank, the state of Saxony Anhalt, and the German foundation for monument protection. Read more: Gerhard Richter's windows for Germany's oldest monastery In Germany, many church buildings have been abandoned for years. Congregations are shrinking and church buildings are desecrated or done up: sometimes by the wrecking ball, sometimes by conversion into another type of building. The people of Stiege are unusual in their battle to save the stave church. It's 458.5 meters (1,593 ft) long and hangs 100 meters (328 ft) above the river — the pedestrian suspension bridge spanning the Rappbode Dam is the latest tourist attraction in the Harz mountains. Depending on the weather, it sways in the wind, so it takes a bit of courage to cross it. It takes even more courage to hang in a belt on a cable and hurtle downwards at 90 kilometers an hour. In addition to the mega-zipline, you can try out wall running at Wendenfurth Dam. Event tourism is booming around Rappbode Reservoir. The wild, romantic countryside is still the main reason for a trip to the Harz. In that sense, little has changed since Goethe's and Heine's times. Both poets visited the region often and immortalized it in their works, which is why you can still follow in their footsteps on trails named after them. Many hiking trails lead to the summit of the Brocken, at 1,141 meters (3,747 ft) the highest peak in the Harz. On it are a hotel, a weather station and a museum that informs visitors about the division of Germany. The Brocken lay in a restricted military zone. The Stasi, the former East German secret police, maintained a listening post up here that also spied on West German politicians. Narrow gauge steam trains that could be right out of a picture-book have been taking passengers up the Brocken since 1898. But the nostalgic trip is only worth it when there's good visibility, and that's a rarity up here. Statistically, the Brocken is shrouded in fog 300 days a year. These ladies don't care about the weather. Legend has it that they gather on the Brocken on Walpurgis Night to revel with the devil. Nowadays, this age-old saga has become a spring festival: every year, witches and devils celebrate Walpurgis Night in many places in the Harz region. Another saga tells the story of Princess Ilse. As punishment for betraying secrets entrusted to her, she was turned into a river. Since then, she has meandered, constantly babbling and burbling, through the Harz. About ten percent of the Harz mountain range has been a nature reserve since 2006. The aim is to return the forest to its original pristine state. Deciduous trees such as beech are being planted to reduce the now widespread spruce monocultures. Hiking trails have also been reduced in the national park in order to create larger zones where wild animals remain undisturbed. You can get quite close to them at two observation stations: the lynx, for instance, which has been successfully reintroduced to the Harz although it was considered extinct in Central Europe for 200 years. The lion quite rightly represents the town of Goslar. It symbolizes power and might, two attributes that distinguished Goslar in the Middle Ages. The German emperors liked to hold court here, in part because the nearby ore deposits increased their wealth. Goslar's picturesque medieval old town is a UNESCO World Heritage site. Mount Rammelsberg with its mining museum has also been given world heritage status. Its visitors' mine demonstrates the thousand-year history of mining in the Harz region. Scientists were actually looking for new ore deposits when they came across Baumann's Cave. It's one of many limestone caves in the Harz in which you can admire the stalactites and stalagmites. By the way, the latter are the speleotherms, or cave deposits, that grow upwards. Half-timbered houses are closely associated with many towns in the Harz, but those in Wernigerode are multi-colored, and it's often referred to as the colorful town in the Harz foothills. Its 15th century town hall is a gem, and tourists to the region love taking pictures of it. Author: Kerstin Schmidt (ms) The nearby town of Hahnenklee is the location of the largest stave church in Germany. The building is slightly different and has a more art nouveau style — and this has made the church a visitor attraction. Hardly any other church in the region records higher visitor numbers. This is why association member Bierwisch is confident the historic church will help boost tourism, encouraging passengers from the Harz railway to disembark. In early spring 2021, the wooden structure at the back of the forest will be dismantled and brought to the village. In the course of the summer, the interior will be refurbished and restored. Bierwisch is confident that the "translocation" will be a success. On the way from the railroad station to the construction site, there is a well-kept elongated wooden house. A sign above the entrance says "Stiege bowling alley." This hall, Bierwisch mentions casually in passing, was once part of the lung sanatorium six kilometers to the south — before it was also "imported" here. This article was translated from German.  