The Indian government on Saturday invited trade unions for talks to discuss their demands regarding a set of agriculture laws that are being vehemently opposed by the country's farmers. Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar said that talks will take place on December 3. "Talks were held earlier to remove some misconceptions among farmers, but remained inconclusive. We are ready to open those talks again," he told reporters on Saturday. There was no immediate response from the farmers' representatives. The protesters said they would not return to their homes until their demands were met. The government's talks offer came after a day of protests and clashes between the farmers and police outside the capital New Delhi. Despite the government's decision to allow protesters to enter the city on Saturday, thousands of farmers continued with their agitation, blocking at least three highways into Delhi, according to local media. In September, India's parliament passed three controversial agriculture bills, sparking farmers' protests across the country. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3iqXV The three bills — the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Service Bill 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020 — became laws after they were signed by President Ram Nath Kovind. Read more: Indian milk farmers say they miss out on record dairy industry profits The government says the new laws will liberalize farm trade, give freedom to farmers to sell their produce outside regulated markets and enter into contracts with buyers at a pre-agreed price. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) insists that the laws will fetch better prices and free farmers from traditional middlemen who dominate the trade. The government hopes that its new policy will double farmers' income by 2022. Farmers' associations say the legislation does not guarantee acquisition of farm produce at the minimum support price (MSP), thus leaving them at the mercy of corporations that are now expected to enter the country's troubled farming sector. Read more: Why Indian farmers are angry over agricultural reforms "We are fighting for our rights. We won't rest until we reach the capital and force the government to abolish these black laws,'' said Majhinder Singh Dhaliwal, a farmer leader. Opposition parties and some allies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi have called the laws anti-farmer and pro-corporation. The thin cloth does little to block the hot sun, but these farmers have come out every day for weeks demanding the repeal of farming laws. Delhi says the laws "free" farmers from restrictions allowing them to sell more. However, the farmers say they never faced any legal limits on selling produce and accuse the government of bowing to pressure from big corporations and selling out poor farmers. India's ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) recently passed three reforms to agricultural law it says will free up agricultural markets and allow farmers the freedom to market their produce. Opponents say the reforms allow large agricultural companies more access to the market, which could choke off small-scale farmers. Farmers' associations say the legislation does not safeguard small farmers' access to so-called minimum support price (MSP), which is set by the government of India to ensure that a crop is sold at a minimum price. They say the laws could allow larger corporations to undersell small farmers. Although the ruling BJP government says the MSP will not be affected, farmers' unions argue the new legislation will allow big companies to take over regardless. In protest, farmers have been sitting outside the homes of local BJP leaders for weeks now. The BJP has also been driven out of villages, which depend almost entirely on farming. India's opposition parties have taken out massive rallies to support the farmers' cause, and detractors say the farmers are being mobilized for political gains. However, the leaders of the farmers' movement said political parties are forbidden from speaking at their protests. No flags of any political party are allowed at the sit-ins. Even if the farmers do not overtly advocate political parties, their protests are making waves in government. The BJP's longstanding ally in Punjab, Akali Dal, quit the alliance over the protests fearing a loss of Punjabi votes. These protesting farmers start and end their days together. Copies of the laws are translated into Punjabi, the local language, and information sessions are organized. A local Sikh temple has set up a community kitchen that feeds all the protesters. Here they eat sitting together in a nearby field. An average farmer in Punjab owns between 1-2 hectares of land. While their income isn't high, a landowning farmer can sustain a family. In a country where nearly 60% of the population struggles with poverty, these farmers see their land as the only asset that will ensure future generations can make a living. Two-thirds of India's 1.3 billion people depend on farming. Despite little coverage from national media, these men leave their homes each day dressed well, wearing a white "kurta-pajama" outfit and a colorful turban. In the sweltering heat, it is time for them to harvest their crop. Some members of the family work on the fields, while others come out to join the demonstration. Farmers' unions say the government has no interest in hearing their demands. Farmers are accused of "not reading the bills", "not understanding economics", "being stuck in the past," and being "political pawns." These farmers say they don't know how long they will stay on the railway tracks. They keep showing up every day, because if they don’t, no one else will speak for them, they say. Author: Seerat Chabba (Amritsar, Punjab) Indian farmers have held huge rallies across the country in the past few years to protest against the government's "neglect" of the agriculture sector amid increasing privatization. Once accounting for a third of India's gross domestic product (GDP), the farming sector now produces only 15% of the country's $2.9 trillion (€2.4 trillion) economy. More than half of India's farmers are reportedly in debt, with 20,638 committing suicide in 2018 and 2019, according to India's National Crime Records Bureau. Read more: Social entrepreneurship for sustainable farming in India shs/aw (dpa, Reuters)  