German Chancellor Angela Merkel defended the extension of Germany's partial lockdown in a speech to lawmakers Thursday. She said current lockdown measures had enjoyed some success, but more was needed to avoid the health system being overwhelmed. "It is inconceivable where we would be today if we had not been willing and able to make this national effort four weeks ago, when it was literally 5 to 12," she said. The restrictions in force since November 2 have prevented the worst from happening — overwhelming the health system, she said. "This is an initial success, but it is not yet a sustainable success," she said. The "urgently needed trend reversal" in infection rates has not yet been achieved. "Our goal is and remains to reduce the number of infections to such an extent that the health authorities are once again able to recognise and interrupt infection chains," Merkel stressed. She said this would be achieved if the number of new infections per 100,000 inhabitants fell below 50 within seven days. In most regions of Germany, the figure is currently significantly higher. Merkel said Germany is hoping to have ski resorts closed down across the European Union this year, but were being thwarted by Austria. Merkel's comments came after new restrictions were agreed during a seven-hour meeting with Germany's 16 state premiers. The chancellor noted that since November restrictions, people have reduced their contacts by 40%. Underscoring the need for further restrictions, she said that "if we were to wait until intensive care units are fully occupied, it would be too late." The current lockdown has stopped the exponential growth of cases, Merkel said, but they still remain "far too high." She added that: Merkel stressed that masks plus social distancing are the most effective way to combat the spread of the virus. However, she noted, non-medical masks are not "100% effective." She recognized the federal government needed to spend billions of euros to mitigate the economic consequences and help affected businesses and people. The current partial lockdown will be extended until at least December 20, and will probably be extended into January. Details include: If things go well, the rules will relaxed slightly between December 23 to January 1 for the celebration of Christmas. Up to 10 people are to be allowed to meet, with children aged 14 and under exempt from the limit. Restaurants and bars will still be required to stay closed over the holiday period. People are urged to voluntarily self-isolate before and after holiday gatherings. Employers should show flexibility and allow people to stay at home to work over this period. Public firework displays will be banned in busy squares and streets. The amnesty is not guaranteed. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3lm75 Germany on Wednesday recorded its highest 24-hour death rate, with 410 people succumbing to the coronavirus. Roughly 20,000 new infections are being recorded each day in Germany, with 22,000 recorded on Thursday. The infection rate had been accelerating before the November lockdown, and total cases are approaching one million.  