Police in the German capital, Berlin, have arrested three people suspected of taking part in the theft of priceless treasures from a museum in the eastern city of Dresden last year, prosecutors said on Tuesday. The three people arrested were said to be German citizens. Prosecutors indicated they were confident of the suspects' involvement, saying they were "strongly" suspected. They belong to "Berlin clan network," according to authorities. Thieves broke into Dresden's Grünes Gewölbe, known as the Green Vault in English, on November 25, 2019, stealing three priceless sets of 18th-century jewelry within minutes. They then fled in a car that they later torched. The arrests came during a large-scale police raid of 18 properties, garages and vehicles, with a focus on the Berlin district of Neukölln. the prosecutors said. More than 1,600 police officers from across Germany were involved in the raid. Police said the operation could cause disruption of traffic in the entire city area. Police in Berlin arrested three suspects in the art heist during a morning raid on November 17 Security camera footage released by Dresden police after the 2019 heist shows two suspects entering the room, waving their flashlights as they step across the black-and-white-tiled floor. They then shatter a glass display case with an ax before taking three sets of jewelry. The theft was done quickly; by the time police arrived on the scene, five minutes after the alarm had been triggered by security personnel, the thieves had fled. The suspects would have had about one minute after destroying the case to take all they could, Dirk Syndram, director of the Green Vault, said in a press conference after the crime nearly a year ago. Initial media reports in Germany suggested the value of the stolen items could be in the hundreds of millions of euros, yet authorities refrained from putting a figure on the stolen goods, which have incalculable historical value. Bejeweled items were among the pieces stolen in the 2019 heist "There is nowhere, in any other collection in Europe, jewels or jewel sets that have been preserved in this form and quality and quantity as these royal sets," Syndram said after the heist. According to images released by authorities, the stolen pieces included bejeweled items like buttons and cuff links and a diamond-encrusted sword, as well as a set of jewelry that belonged to a queen of Saxony, Amalie Auguste, who ruled in the 19th century. Another stolen item was the famous 49-carat Dresden White Diamond. Immediately after the crime occurred, a 20-person team code-named "Epaulette" — named after an ornamented shoulder piece, one of the items stolen in the heist — began to work on solving it. Now it appears their work has paid off. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3ThbR The museum, situated in Dresden Castle, houses one of Europe's biggest treasure collections. It was founded between 1723 and 1729 by Augustus the Strong to publicly display his collection of treasures, making it one of the world's oldest museums. As one of the city's most popular tourist attractions, the museum has some 3,000 pieces on display. It was damaged during World War II, and at the end of the war the collection was taken to the Soviet Union and not returned to Dresden until 1958. This 18th century diamond epaulet was among the items stolen Düsseldorf professor Ulli Seegers, former head of the German branch of the Art Loss Register, which collects worldwide reports on missing art, whether through theft, robbery, or confiscation, told DW in a 2019 interview that museums always run the risk of losing parts of their collection. "One has to weigh up quite carefully what the public interest is and how one can protect these treasures of irretrievable, and above all, cultural value as much as possible." Compromises are necessary, she said, but ultimately, "Wherever you let people in and allow the public to participate, there is always a risk." The well-executed Dresden heist drew comparisons to the similarly ambitious robbery of a 100-kilogram (220 pound) gold coin called the "Big Maple Leaf," which was taken from the Bode museum in Berlin in 2017. It was valued at roughly €3.8 million ($4.4 million). The thieves, who belonged to a criminal clan in Berlin and were later arrested, used a wheelbarrow and a getaway car. It was an inside job: A freshly hired security guard was found to be in on the theft. A medal covered in diamonds was one of the items stolen in Dresden Authorities investigating the Dresden heist also questioned the museum's security personnel in March, suspecting similar inside access. "In recent years we have observed an increasing tendency for internationally networked gangs to concentrate on objects that have a high material value," Seegers said, mentioning the Bode museum heist. "The same now applies to this jewelry, where there is a real fear that the gangsters will destroy this unique cultural treasure and dismantle it into individual parts." Three men received jail time for stealing the "Big Maple Leaf." Authorities said they suspected the treasure was cut up into smaller pieces. The Green Vault in Dresden's Royal Palace is one of the most famous treasure chambers of Europe. Early in the morning of November 25, 2019, burglars broke into the museum and stole three sets of jewelry from the early 18th century. The works made up of diamond, ruby and emerald gems are seen as "priceless." German newspaper Bild called it "probably the biggest art theft since World War II." The world's most famous portrait, Leonardo da Vinci's "Mona Lisa," was stolen in 1911. A young Italian named Vincenzo Peruggia took the painting from the Louvre in Paris. Dressed as a member of the museum staff, he was able to hide the relatively small painting under his work coat. It reappeared in 1913 after an art dealer alerted the police. Rembrandt's portrait of "Jacques III de Gheyn" wasn't stolen from Britain's Dulwich Picture Gallery just once, but four times, namely in 1966, 1973, 1981 and 1986. That's why it came to be nicknamed the "Takeaway Rembrandt." Fortunately the painting has been recovered after each theft. The burglary of 13 paintings from the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum stirred international attention in 1990. Two men disguised as policemen broke into the building and removed the paintings, among them Edouard Manet's "Chez Tortoni" and Jan Vermeer's "Concert" (pictured). The empty picture frames are still hanging on the walls. In 1991, a man managed to lock himself into a bathroom in the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam — unnoticed. With the help of a warden, he removed a total of 20 paintings, among them the Dutch painter's "Self-Portrait with Easel." However, police were able to recover the works from the getaway car just one hour later. The thieves were caught a few months later. "Madonna of the Yarnwinder" by Leonardo da Vinci, valued at €70 million ($76 million), was stolen from a Scottish castle in 2003. Two thieves who entered an exhibition as tourists overpowered the security guard at Drumlanrig Castle and fled with the precious artwork. It remained lost for years until it was discovered during a raid in Glasgow in 2007. Two paintings by expressionist Edvard Munch, "The Scream" and "Madonna," were stolen in Oslo in 2004. Two armed robbers invaded the Munch Museum and, witnessed by numerous visitors, ripped the paintings from the wall. Police were able to retrieve the two famous paintings. However, "The Scream" was damaged so badly during the incident that it could never be fully restored. In 2008, armed thieves pilfered four paintings amounting to a total value of 180 million Swiss francs (€156 million, $182 million) from the collection Bührle in Zurich. "The Boy in the Red Vest" by Paul Cézanne, "Ludovic Lepic and His Daughters" by Edgar Degas, "Blossoming Chestnut Branches" by Vincent van Gogh, and "Poppy Field Near Vétheuil" by Claude Monet (pictured) all resurfaced later on. In March 2017, a huge gold coin weighing 100 kilos was stolen from Berlin's Bode Museum. Just its sheer material value alone amounts to four million dollars. It is believed that the thieves found their way into the building through a window. The "Big Maple Leaf" coin originated in Canada. It is 53 cm high and 3 cm thick. On the front side, it bears an image of Queen Elizabeth II. Author: Ines Eisele (ad) (dpa, AFP)  