Kosovo, which declared its independence from Serbia in 2008, is in a state of political crisis. On Thursday, several of the country's most prominent politicians — including President Hashim Thaci — were charged with war crimes by the Kosovo Specialist Chambers and Specialist Prosecutor's Office in The Hague. Thaci stepped down, saying he did not want to appear before the court as president. "I resign as of today," Thaci said after the indictment was announced, adding that he had made his decision "to protect the integrity of the presidency of Kosovo." Before going to the headquarters of the European Rule of Law Mission in Kosovo in the capital, Pristina, Thaci said he would cooperate with justice officials and face the charges. He has now arrived in The Hague. The others accused include Kadri Veseli, who stepped down as the head of the Democratic Party of Kosovo on November 5, former Assembly Chairman Jakup Krasniqi, and Rexhep Selimi, the parliamentary leader of Vetevendosje (Self-Determination), the largest party in Kosovo. Thaci, Veseli, Krasniqi and Selimi were high-ranking members of the Kosovo Liberation Army (KLA), which fought against Serbia during the 1998-99 Kosovo War. They are accused of having committed or ordered war crimes — including murder, torture, persecution and the inhumane treatment of prisoners. Read more: US signs 5G security deal with Bulgaria, North Macedonia and Kosovo In June, the chief prosecutor of the Kosovo Specialist Chambers, Jack Smith, had announced that Thaci and the other three defendants stood accused of being involved in about 100 murders. At the time, however, the charges had not yet been made official. The charges against Thaci and the other politicians were made public on Thursday. the men accused have dismissed the accusations as groundless. Read more: In 2011, a previous prime minister's renewed war crimes trial saddened Kosovo Albanians The Kosovo Specialist Chambers court was set up in 2016 under pressure from international leaders. The court is constituted through Kosovan legislation, but all judges and public prosecutors are from other countries to ensure that cases are carried out with a greater degree of impartiality. The court is to deal with war crimes, crimes against humanity, torture and displacement that occurred in Kosovo between early January 1998 and late December 2000. Thaci, who served as Kosovo's first postindependence prime minister from 2008 to 2014, had originally urged the Assembly of Kosovo to establish the special court. However, his political opponents accuse him of having done so solely for the sake of his personal interests and not because he was interested in investigating crimes committed by KLA members in the Kosovo War. They say Thaci had given in to pressure from the international community. The opposition leader at the time, Albin Kurti, criticized the fact that the special court was responsible only for crimes committed by the KLA and not those carried out by the Serbian military and intelligence services against Kosovo Albanians. However, some crimes committed by Serbia's military state during the Kosovo War were dealt with by the now-closed International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY). During the Kosovo War, more than 13,000 people were killed — most of them by Serbian forces. Now 52, Thaci has presented himself as a peacemaker in the postwar years. Thaci was once the political leader of the KLA. In addition to serving first as prime minister and finally as president, he was foreign minister from 2014 to 2016. He had a major role in the dialogue between Kosovo and Serbia that began in 2005. In 2013, he and his Serbian counterpart at the time, Ivica Dacic, signed the Brussels Agreement to normalize relations between the countries. Important parts of this agreement have not yet been implemented. The dialogue between the countries has been interrupted  several times for extended periods; at the moment, talks are going slow. A 2010 report by the Swiss prosecutor Dick Marty has hung over Thaci for a decade now. And he has reportedly spent a great deal of this period trying to prevent war crimes charges from being leveled against him. Critics in Kosovo have accused him of often neglecting important political issues in his country as a result. But now it is clear that Thaci will have to answer in court. Marty's report was a major factor in the establishment of the special tribunal. In 2011, a commission set up by the Council of Europe and led by Marty presented a report implicating KLA leaders such as Thaci, Veseli and others in suspected war crimes against Serbs, Roma and Albanians. One of the most serious crimes mentioned in the report had to do with the organ trade. Marty alleged that Thaci and others had been involved in killing prisoners of war and selling their organs. Thaci has always denied the allegations. To this day, none of the accused has been indicted for such activities. But charges may yet be laid. Read more: The beekeeper protecting Kosovo's forests The official narrative within Kosovo is that the war against the Serbian oppressors was legitimate and that crimes had occurred only in individual cases in which the KLA was not involved. Up to now, there has been only tentative debate on how much the KLA had to do with such crimes. People who attempt to publicly broach the topic are often treated as traitors — as can be seen in the case of the political scientist and journalist Shkelzen Gashi, who said in an interview in April that some KLA leaders had committed war crimes. He received death threats, and former Prime Minister Kurti fired him as an adviser. In contrast, indicted war criminals in Kosovo are often celebrated as the heroes of the struggle for liberation and given important state positions. The lack of effort within Serbia to confront the country's own war crimes is another factor that has contributed to the muted debate in Kosovo. Only recently, Dacic — now the president of Serbia's National Assembly — indirectly described Serbs who disclosed war crimes committed against Albanians or identified the sites of mass graves as traitors who should be punished. Under these circumstances, a vigorous debate about wartime atrocities will not likely occur in Kosovo. What is certain, however, is that Thaci's departure from the political stage in Kosovo will trigger a major crisis. Assembly Speaker Vjosa Osmani is serving as interim president. By law, the Assembly has to elect a new head of state within six months. But this may prove difficult as the Assembly is very divided. The government has only a very small and fragile majority. For this reason, observers believe that the government could soon fall — making new elections necessary. The Kosovo conflict intensified at the end of the 1990s. Ten thousand people were displaced. When all efforts to bring peace to the region failed, NATO started air strikes on Serbian military bases and strategic targets in Serbia on March 24, 1999. After 11 weeks, Serb leader Slobodan Milosevic finally backed down. Protests against Belgrade's attempts to undermine the rights of the Albanian majority in Kosovo began in the mid-1980s. The 1990s saw a massive increase in Serbian repression. Ibrahim Rugova (l.), who took the reins of Kosovo's political movement in 1989, called for non-violent resistance and sought to convince Slobodan Milosevic (r.) to change course — to no avail. An armed resistance formed in Kosovo, in which the self-proclaimed Kosovo Liberation Army (UCK) began a brutal guerrilla war. The UCK undertook violent attacks on Serbia as well as against Albanians it considered to be collaborators. Serbia retaliated by torching houses and looting businesses. Hundreds of thousands of people fled. The war grew increasingly brutal and Serbian forces stepped up attacks on civilians in an attempt to destroy the UCK and its supporters. Scores of people fled into the forests. Thousands of Kosovo Albanians were loaded onto trains and trucks to be transported to the border, where they were thrown out without passports or other personal documents that could prove they were from Kosovo. In February 1999, the USA, France, the United Kingdom, Russia and Germany convened a meeting of warring parties in Rambouillet, France, in an attempt to establish autonomy for Kosovo. Kosovan representatives accepted the proposal, yet Serbia was unwilling to compromise. The negotiations collapsed. On March 24, 1999, NATO began bombing military and strategic targets in Serbia and Kosovo in an attempt to end violence against the Albanians. Germany also participated in the bombing. "Operation Allied Force" became the first war in NATO's 50-year history — one conducted without the backing of the UN Security Council. Russia harshly criticized the intervention. Beyond military targets, NATO also bombed supply lines, train tracks and bridges. Over the course of 79 days and nights, allied forces flew more than 37,000 sorties. Some 20,000 missiles and bombs rained down on Serbia. Many civilians were killed: "collateral damage," in the words of NATO. Industrial sites were also targeted. In Pancevo, near Belgrade, NATO bombs hit a chemical and fertilizer factory. Massive amounts of toxic substances were released into rivers, the ground and the skies — resulting in grave health risks for the nearby civilian population. Moreover, Serbia accused NATO of deploying uranium-enriched munitions as well as cluster and fragment bombs. State television offices in Belgrade were attacked in an attempt to deprive Slobodan Milosevic of his most important propaganda tool. Although the Serbian government was warned of an impending attack in time, Belgrade withheld that information. Sixteen people were killed when the site was bombed. NATO bombs in Kosovo inadvertently hit a group of Albanian refugees, killing an estimated 80 people. NATO also claimed that the accidental bombardment of the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade was another case of "collateral damage." Four people were killed in the misguided attack, leading to a diplomatic crisis between Beijing and Washington. In early June, Belgrade signaled that Slobodan Milosevic might be prepared to surrender, prompting NATO to end its campaign on June 19. The final toll of the war: thousands of dead and 860,000 refugees. Serbia's economy and large swaths of its infrastructure were destroyed. Kosovo was put under UN administration. Author: Sonila Sand  