Biden made it clear in his first appearance as president-elect: Tackling the coronavirus pandemic will be his number one priority. "Folks, our work begins with getting COVID under control," Biden said in his victory speech  Saturday night in Wilmington, Delaware. "We cannot repair the economy, restore our vitality or relish life's most precious moments, hugging our grandchildren, our children, our birthdays, weddings, graduations, all the moments that matter most to us, until we get it under control." The president-elect promised an "action blueprint," to be implemented as soon as he takes office on January 20, 2021. "That plan will be built on bedrock science," Biden added. "It will be constructed out of compassion, empathy and concern." Experts were relieved to hear that the future US president looks to be open to advice from scientists and medical professionals. "I'm very hopeful and optimistic that the Biden-Harris administration will finally mount a federal response that is grounded in science," Ashwin Vasan, a doctor and assistant professor at the Columbia University Medical Center in New York, told DW. "I'm a doctor, a public health scientist and an epidemiologist, so obviously I'm thrilled that [Biden] plans to put people with that experience at the center of his COVID response team and plan." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3l5LB Biden has introduced a coronavirus task force that will have three co-chairs, all of them with considerable knowledge and experience in the medical field: Vivek H. Murthy, David Kessler and Marcella Nunez-Smith. Murthy was the surgeon general during the Obama administration when Biden was vice president and Kessler was the Food and Drug Administration commissioner under Presidents George H.W. Bush and Bill Clinton. Both have been briefing the president-elect on the pandemic for months. Nunez-Smith is the associate dean for health equity research at the Yale School of Medicine. The task force has their work cut out for them. The US has a total of more than 10 million coronavirus cases and has recently seen more than 100,000 new cases a day - higher than during the pandemic's initial spike in the spring. Monday's announcement from German company BioNTech and its US partner Pfizer that their COVID-vaccine has proven 90%  effective in on-going Phase III is welcome news. But a success in the testing stage today does not mean there will be vaccines for everyone tomorrow. And it doesn't stop with the manufacturing of the inoculant either. "One of the most important things for [the president-elect] to do is to develop a vaccine distribution program that is efficient and equitable," said Vasan, who is also the head of the mental health organization Fountain House in New York. "On the production side and the distribution side, that's a huge challenge ahead. The federal government … needs to not only ensure that vaccines are getting made, but also distribute them in a rational approach, focusing first on essential workers, highly exposed and at-risk people. Only the federal government can execute that." On Biden's transition website, it says that his and Harris' administration is going to "plan for the effective, equitable distribution of treatments and vaccines — because development isn't enough if they aren't effectively distributed." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3l7Pw The other big task is depoliticizing the wearing of masks. Currently, there is a patchwork of rules varying from state to state — when you travel through Republican-governed states, like South Dakota for example, it is not unusual to see no one wearing masks, from people in the street to store patrons and wait-staff in restaurants. Elsewhere, like in Washington D.C., wearing a mask is mandatory as soon as you leave your home, and the majority of people abide by that rule. "Experts agree that tens of thousands of lives can be saved if Americans wear masks," it says on the Biden transition website. "President-elect Biden will continue to call on every American to wear a mask when they are around people outside their household [and] every Governor to make that mandatory in their state." Vasan said he welcomes a unified mask policy by a president-elect. Biden has worn a nose-and-mouth covering at all public appearances since the start of the pandemic, in stark contrast to President Donald Trump. The New York doctor said that there would have to be an uptick in the production of personal protection equipment (PPE) for a national mask mandate to work, but he is optimistic. "We've been talking since the beginning of the pandemic about the special abilities that the federal government has to marshal industry to direct it toward particular production, but that was never fully employed by the outgoing administration," Vasan said. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3aQNZ He acknowledged that producing PPE on such a large scale won't be easy but that under a determined federal government, it can be done. "I'm just very excited to have real scientists and leaders in place," Vasan said. "Right now, they're taking all the right steps. It's just nice to be able to have a substantive conversation about how to tackle the pandemic instead of fighting these chaotic and misinformed battles about even the basic nature of this pandemic." Vasan continued: "We're entering the most difficult period of the pandemic here in the United States. We've got a lot to do, irrespective of who's in charge. Now I'm hopeful the politics will not be in the way, but will actually be a catalyst and an accelerant for a strong response." Polish President Andrzej Duda tested positive for coronavirus, as the country faces a surge in new infections in October. Duda, an ally of the ruling nationalist Law and Justice Party, was "feeling fine" at the time of the diagnosis. The day before officials announced his infection, the number of new cases in the country of 38 million hit a daily record of more than 13,600. Donald Trump, who once said COVID-19 tests were "beautiful," tested positive for the coronavirus, along with his wife Melania, soon after senior aide Hope Hicks also contracted the virus. Trump previously claimed experts should consider using powerful light and injecting disinfectants to treat the novel virus. It is not known whether he will be using this form of treatment for his own infection. The 83-year-old former Italian premier tested positive for the virus and is believed to be asymptomatic, his party announced September 2. Two of Berlusconi's children as well as his 30-year-old girlfriend are also COVID-19 positive. The ex-premier tested positive after vacationing along Sardinia's coastline, where Italy's rich and famous have been known to flaunt mask policies. Brazil's president, who has repeatedly downplayed the severity of the pandemic, contracted the virus in July. He was criticized for ignoring the safety measures recommended by health experts both before and after his diagnosis, including shaking hands and hugging supporters in crowds. His wife and sons have also tested positive. Sophie Gregoire Trudeau, wife of Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, tested positive for coronavirus after returning from the United Kingdom in mid-March. Her husband later announced that he had gone into self-isolation. In late March, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson came down with a coronavirus infection that landed him in the hospital for several days. Johnson spent a week at a hospital in London and three nights in intensive care where he was given oxygen and observed around the clock. He was released in mid-April and credited hospital staff with saving his life. Michel Barnier, the EU's chief Brexit negotiator, tested positive for the virus in March. The top Brussels official sent out a tweet in English as well as French saying he was doing well and "in good spirits." He added: "I am following all the necessary instructions, as is my team." Belarus's embattled President Lukashenko told military officials on July 28 that he had survived an "asymptomatic" COVID-19 infection "on his feet," days before his contentious re-election. The claim met skepticism given its timing. He initially dismissed fears about the pandemic as a "psychosis" and went as far as suggesting cures such as drinking vodka, taking saunas and playing ice hockey. Bolivia's interim president Jeanine Anez announced on July 10 that she had the virus. "I feel well, I feel strong, I am going to keep working remotely from my isolation, and I want to thank all the Bolivians who are working to help us in this health crisis," the leader tweeted at the time. The president of Honduras spent time being treated at a military hospital after falling ill with coronavirus in June. He received specialized care including receiving medicines via an intravenous drip. His wife and two presidential aids also tested positive. Hernandez left hospital in early July after his symptoms improved. The Guatemalan president told local radio on September 18 that he had tested positive for the virus. The 64-year-old, who has multiple sclerosis and uses canes to walk, said his symptoms were mild. The government said Giammattei plans on monitoring his health and continuing official duties from isolation. Author: Rebecca Staudenmaier