Romain Grosjean's desperate leap from the wreckage of his burning car will be the enduring image of a Bahrain Grand Prix that will remembered only for the Frenchman's miraculous escape. Just clear of turn two on the opening lap, Grosjean lost control of his Haas and rammed into the barriers at around 250 kilometers/hour (155 miles/hour), with the impact slicing his car in half, producing an instant fireball and a plume of dense black smoke. It wasn't immediately clear whether Grosjean had got out, but after a few agonizing moments pictures showed him jumping out of the wreckage and into the arms of the nearby staff. He was taken to hospital, where he will stay overnight as a precaution even though his injuries were limited to broken ribs and some minor burns. "It's a miracle that he's alive," said 1996 world champion Damon Hill, who was Ayrton Senna's teammate at the 1994 San Marino Grand Prix where the Brazilian was killed. Medical teams were quickly on the scene following Grosjean's extraordinary escape Medical car driver Alan van der Merwe was on the scene within seconds as he followed the field after the start of the race, and along with chief medical officer Dr. Ian Roberts they battled the blaze to save Grosjean's life. "It was a big surprise for us as well, we've never seen that much fire in 12 years," said Van der Merwe. "Romain started to get out of the car himself which was pretty amazing after an accident like that. It was a relief to see he was OK. It just goes to show all the systems we've developed worked hand in hand — the halos [safety device], the barriers, the seat belts, everything all worked as it should. Without just one of those things, it could have been a very different outcome." The race was won by Lewis Hamilton for a record-extending 95th career victory, but the result was merely a footnote as Hamilton praised the halo, a protective ring above the drivers' head which the champion believes saved Grosjean's life. "[The Grosjean incident] was such a shocking image to see," said the seven-time champion. "When we get in the car we know we are taking risks. I’m so grateful the halo worked." The halo was introduced following the death of French driver Jules Bianchi after he sustained massive head trauma on a rain-soaked track at the Japan Grand Prix six years ago and went headfirst into a trackside crane. Two years ago Charles Leclerc, Bianchi's close friend, was likely saved serious injury or death by the halo when another car landed on top of his at the Belgian Grand Prix. Max Verstappen finished second with his Red Bull teammate Albon completing the podium, for the constructor's first podium double since Japan 2017. As it happened: Lap 57/57 — LEWIS HAMILTON WINS THE BAHRAIN GRAND PRIX! It's yet another win for the champion, who wins with the safety car on the track and Perez's engine on fire. A fitting end to a race that will remembered not for Hamilton's victory but the horrific crash from which Romain Grosjean thankfully walked away from. Lap 54/57 — "Are you falling asleep? Wake up!," Perez asks his team. "Yes Checo, we're here," his engineer says. Lap 50/57 — Verstappen grabs another fastest lap and now we may see Hamilton pit to have a couple of late bites at the extra point himself. Lap 44/57 — Bottas takes Ocon on the inside to seize ninth place. A small consolation for another race to forget for Hamilton's understudy at Mercedes. Lap 36/57 — Verstappen's pit stop is followed closely by Hamilton. Both are on the hard tire now, and that should see them through to the end. Hamilton rejoins in first, narrowly ahead of Perez. Lap 30/57 — Sainz makes a nice maneuver on Ocon to take sixth and Sainz is right behind his young McLaren teammate Norris now. "Lewis is using a lot more of the track limits at turn 4," Verstappen is told. Lap 22/57 — Albon makes a smooth move on Leclerc with DRS to seize fifth place . Meanwhile, it's a new fastest lap for Verstappen, who is a second faster than Hamilton at the moment. Lap 15/57 — "My car is jumping around like a kangaroo, I swear," Verstappen yelps down the Red Bull team radio. Lap 10/57 — And after almost two hours, we've finally had a lap of racing. Hamilton leads from Verstappen, Perez is third. Lap 3/57 — After an hour and a half, the Bahrain gets underway again. Hamilton keeps his lead and Bottas, who had restarted the race in fourth, passes Albon to regain a place. But the safety car is out after Stroll's car flips and that's him out the race. Thankfully not anywhere near as serious as Grosjean's crash. Lap 1/57 — HUGE CRASH The red flag comes out immediately because Romain Grosjean has suffered a horrific crash on the second corner, slamming into the barriers at around 250 kilometers/hour with his car immediately engulfed in flames. Thankfully, Grosjean somehow walks away, albeit slowly and with the help of medical staff who are very quickly on the scene. Grosjean is taken straight into the medical vehicle and will be examined. A shocking moment and the race will be restarted later. Update — Grosjean has suffered suspected broken ribs and burns to his wrists and ankles, which are not believed to be major. A huge relief to everyone that his injuries are not more serious. More on his status as we get it. Social reactions Qualifying Formula One world champion Lewis Hamilton set a track record at the Bahrain Grand Prix en route to a record-extending 98th career pole position on Saturday. The seven-time champion was in total control under the lights in the Middle East as he finished just under 0.3 seconds ahead of his Mercedes teammate Valtteri Bottas and a little of 0.4 clear of Red Bull's Max Verstappen. Verstappen's teammate Alexander Albon was in fourth place and a full second behind Hamilton, who is aiming to secure a record-extending 95th Formula One win on Sunday. How the grid looks Best quote — Max Verstappen (Red Bull) "You always want more but it's important to stay realistic. I'm just pushing as hard as I can with the material I have.'' Circuit profile — Bahrain International Circuit Designed by German architect Hermann Tilke, the Bahrain International Circuit is situated in the middle of the Sakhir desert. Unveiled as an F1 venue in 2004, its first ten F1 races were day races but reverted to a night race in 2014 to celebrate 10 years since its opening, and has remained a race under the lights ever since. The circuit is 5.41 kilometers long with an even combination of straights, turns and tight bends, which makes it an ideal track for the all-round drivers and the most powerful engines. Lewis Hamilton gets the champagne treatment in Istanbul on a day that he equalled Michael Schumacher's record of seven world titles. He achieved it with a typically controlled masterclass in the wet conditions, securing his place among the greatest — if not the greatest — driver the sport has seen. Despite the 2020 season being abbreviated by COVID-19, Lewis Hamilton kept making history. In round 12 of 17, Hamilton overcame a tough start to win in Portimao, a track in Portugal making its Formula One debut. The win took Hamilton's career race wins to 92, one more than Michael Schumacher. Lewis Hamilton enjoys competing against the odds and going into the 2017 F1 season Ferrari driver Sebastian Vettel looked the best bet to pose a credible title challenge. With the German plagued by a series of mechanical failures during the campaign, Hamilton helped himself to his fourth drivers' title in the third-last race of the season. Lewis Hamilton is known for pushing both his car and his opponents to their limits. At this year's Azerbaijan Grand Prix, Hamilton came out of Turn 15 particularly slowly, and his German rival, Sebastian Vettel rear-ended him. Vettel then pulled up beside him and rammed his car. Hamilton denied having been at fault. Hamilton is not always easy to deal with even when he happens to be your teammate. The alpha male didn't take it well when then-Mercedes teammate Nico Rosberg competed hard against him — and succeeded in winning the 2016 drivers' championship. The German driver's lack of deference was a constant source of friction between him and F1's biggest ego. The Briton's favorite driver when he was growing up was the late Ayrton Senna. In Montreal in June, Hamilton captured the 68th pole position of his career, equaling the record of Senna, who died in a crash at Imola in 1994. Senna's family recognized the achievement by presenting Hamilton with one of the late Brazilian driver's helmets. Like the parents of many professional athletes, Hamilton's father Anthony (above, left) made many sacrifices to make Lewis' development as a driver possible, at times holding down as many as three jobs at once. Anthony was Lewis' manager when he first arrived on the circuit in 2007, but the two ended their business relationship in 2010. The two now have a close father-son relationship. His entire family are a priority for Hamilton — including his younger half-brother Nicolas, who despite suffering from cerebral palsy has also managed to become a professional racecar driver. Lewis almost burst with pride when Nicolas moved up the British Touring Car Championship in 2015. At the age of eight, Hamilton (second from right) enjoyed his first win as a driver racing go-karts. He first came into contact with Formula One in 1996, when Mika Hakkinen (right), who would go on to win two F1 titles, presented the trophies at an an event to honor up-and-coming drivers. Ron Dennis (left) was one of the biggest influences on Hamilton early in his career. The longtime team principal of McLaren was impressed when the then-10-year-old Hamilton one day approached him for his autograph and said he intended to drive for McLaren in the future. Three years later, Dennis brought Hamilton into McLaren's youth program. Hamilton is said to have dated a long list of famous women such as actress Kate Hudson, singer Rihanna or professional tennis player Maria Sharapova - as well as numerous models. He remains single and doesn't plan to start a family until his driving career is over. His longest romantic relationship was with the lead singer of the Pussycat Dolls, Nicole Scherzinger (right). Hamilton is very mindful of his image and enjoys hanging out with the rich and famous. He is often seen in the front row of fashion shows. Above he is pictured with supermodel Naomi Campbell (left) at a fashion show in Milan. The Briton has said that he has plans to release his own line of clothing in the future. While some drivers unwind by spending quality time with their loved ones, Hamilton prefers to be where the action is, partying at the hottest clubs. He also enjoys sharing his escapades with his social media followers (five million on Instagram, four million on Faceboook). It was an anti-climatic way for Lewis Hamilton to win an historic fourth F1 world championship, but the smile on his face suggested he didn't care much. A collision with Sebastian Vettel at the start of the Mexican GP left both at the back of the field, but a ninth-placed finish was enough for Hamilton after Vettel finished fourth. Hamilton is the most successful British F1 driver ever. Just days after winning the title, Hamilton was in the headlines for something completely different. According to information released as part of the "Paradise Papers" the Briton avoided paying more than $4 million (€3.4 million) in taxes on a private jet by registering it in the Isle of Man. Hamilton said he trusted the advice of his lawyers, who had assured him that the arrangements were legal.