Journalists from most EU countries rarely cover events in Moldova. When they do, most focus on corrupt politicians, the dominance of oligarchs, or the decadeslong frozen conflict between the central government and the self-declared republic of Transnistria, which is supported by Russia — or perhaps they report on impoverishment and mass emigration. Almost half of Moldova's 4 million citizens live and work abroad, most of them in the European Union. Their remittances, which make up almost a quarter of Moldova's annual gross domestic product, are a lifeline for families back home, and have spared the country from financial ruin. These very citizens, who have worked hard to attain a certain level of material wealth, have also had a decisive impact on the presidential election. DW's Robert Schwartz In Sunday's runoff election, over 90% of the more than 250,000 expat voters cast ballots for the challenger, the former World Bank economist Maia Sandu — which is perhaps why the pro-Russia incumbent, Igor Dodon, had attempted to brand emigres as "traitors." In the end, the Moldovans who voted against the president from abroad seem to have also succeeded at convincing their relatives back home to support the pro-EU Sandu, as well. Despite the coronavirus pandemic, Moldova recorded an impressive voter turnout. Read more: Moldova election heads for runoff, opposition secures narrow lead President-elect Sandu told DW that she would focus early on poverty. Sandu will need parliamentary support to push through her ambitious agenda. The legislature, however, is dominated by the Socialist Party, which has close ties to Dodon, while the pro-EU and reformist camps are fragmented. Without parliamentary backing, Sandu will have a hard time tackling poverty, corruption and cronyism in Moldova. Read more: Moldova adopts energy-efficient approach to building Sandu needs immediate support from the European Union and US. The EU, in particular, must breathe new life into the Association Agreement it hashed out with Moldova in 2014 and provide ample funding to this end. Germany, which holds the rotating presidency of the Council of the European Union through December, is uniquely suited to strengthen ties with the country. Moldova is in dire need of investment and jobs so that its citizens will return and help rebuild the country. It is clear from last Sunday's election result that the majority of Moldovans want nothing more than this. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/39eTD For decades, Moldova has been torn between Russia and the European Union. What Moldova needs now is a genuine opportunity to permanently align with the EU. After all, in spite of numerous agreements, Russia still has troops in the self-declared republic of Transnistria and has shown no willingness to withdraw them. Read more: School choice divides families and holds kids hostage in Transnistria Roughly one in four Moldovans wish to see the country unify with neighboring Romania, after the nations, which share linguistic, religious and cultural traditions were further split when the Soviet Union fell. Ahead of Sunday's runoff election, Dodon had dismissed the prospect of reunification as a danger that could spark unrest and even civil war. Given the armed conflict in neighboring Ukraine and over the disputed Nagorno-Karabakh region, Dodon's warning smacks of irresponsible cynicism. Politicians such as Dodon should be consigned to the dustbin of history. Read more: Moldova's 2019 crisis presented a test for Russia-US cooperation, DW's Robert Schwartz wrote Now, it is on the European Union to help Moldova more closely align with the bloc. In 1991, the Soviet Union broke into pieces from which 15 new sovereign countries were born. Yet Transnistria, the Russian-speaking region in the easternmost part of Moldova, was not among them. The self-proclaimed "presidential republic" has its government, army, flag, emblem, anthem and even passports, which are valid in only three countries in the world. Anton Polyakov was born in the Transnistrian capital of Tiraspol in 1990, the year the region declared independence from Moldova. He has been capturing the daily life of Transnistrians since 2012. "For many, Transnistria is a new country without a past, but some see it as a continuation of the Soviet Union," says the photographer. Portrayed here is famous Soviet footballer Alexander Veryovkin. When Polyakov was 2, tensions between the country and the region led to a war, which was quickly put down by Russia's intervention. "People are still sentimental about the Soviet times here," says Polyakov. May 9, the "Victory Day" of the Great Patriotic War between the Soviet Union and Nazi Germany, is remembered across the region with battle reenactments. The Transnistrian government wants to be ready to fight on real front lines, too. Basic military training is part of high school curricula, military parades take place every year and body-building contests are hugely popular. According to the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the region owns 20,000 to 40,000 tonnes of Soviet-era weaponry. The OSCE report from 2015 also states that Russian military personnel is still present in Transnistria, despite the 1999 Istanbul Summit deal to withdraw. "People here see Russia as the main guarantor of security in the region and want Russia's recognition," says Polyakov. Most Transnistrians voted for independence and potential future integration into Russia in a referendum held in 2006. With a population of roughly 475,000 and an area of 4,163 square kilometers, Transnistria is one of the smallest countries in Europe, yet its per capita GDP is comparable to that of Nigeria. The economy is driven by heavy industry, electricity production and textile manufacturing, but the trade restrictions related to the Ukrainian conflict are bringing the region close to economic collapse. While there are jobs in the cities – albeit poorly paid, with an average salary of 180 euros ($200) – living in the Transnistrian countryside is a different story. "We may think it is great to live in the picturesque nature of the region, but there are no opportunities nor infrastructure. With nothing to do, young people leave and go to the cities or Russia as soon as they can," says Polyakov. The future of Transnistria is dependent on Russia, which views the region as strategically important. And it intends to stick with "the format of the existing peacekeeping mission in Transnistria," which essentially means keeping Russian soldiers there. "This is why Transnistria is still not an independent political player. This makes my home a hostage to the political situation," says Polyakov. Author: Jan Tomes This commentary was adapted from German by Benjamin Restle.