Ivory Coast's ruling party Rally of Houphouetists for Democracy and Peace (RHDP) warned the political opposition, which boycotted the presidential election of October 31, against any "attempt to destabilize" the country. At least five people died over the weekend in election-related violence. The warning came in the wake of a call by the opposition for a "civilian transition" from President Alassane Ouattara's government, which it considers illegitimate. Opposition leader Pascal Affi N'Guessan told reporters: "We consider that there has been no election in Cote d'Ivoire. What Ouattara did is constitutional robbery." Read more: Ivory Coast election violence leaves a 'dozen dead' Ivory Coast is home to 62 different ethnic groups, including the Peuls. But many don't have Ivorian citizenship because the government demands that at least one of their parents were born here — difficult to prove without proper documents. Without Ivorian citizenship, they can't open a bank account or get a driver's license, leaving many Peuls feeling like foreigners in their own country. "Tell me which fabric you wear and I will tell you who are," is a common saying among Ivorians. The traditional wax print fabric is commonly worn by women and each pattern sends a different message to their husbands. The hibiscus flower wax pattern, for example, symbolizes happiness in marriage. Although they've officially been banned since 2015, skin-lightening products are still very popular here. Bleaching dark skin can cause irreparable damage and can even lead to hypertension and diabetes. Still, many pharmacies make a lot of money discreetly selling such products, as well as doctors who can prescribe them. One out of two women in the capital, Abidjan, uses skin lightening products. Young girls dance with their bodies coated with kaolin in Aniansué. They are learning to become komians: Traditional healers and fortune tellers. Komians are known for their ability to cure bad luck and predict the future and are often consulted by the country's most powerful politicans and local chiefs. A unique school teaches this art in the Akan culture. Almost half of the population live below the poverty line, making it easy to exploit those in need of healthcare. Approximately 600 tons of fake medicine have been seized over the last three years, representing a third of all medicines sold in the country. Most of it is imported from Asia. Signs like these are commonly seen outside shops selling 'Made in China' medicines. The world learned of the plight of Ivorian refugees in early 2020 after the body of a teenage boy was found in the landing gear of a plane. Driven by a lack of job prospects, many young people dream of starting a new life abroad, taking dangerous migration roads to reach the Mediterreanean. President Alassane Ouattara has promised to create 200,000 new jobs a year, but the youth aren't convinced. An man patiently waits to buy karite or shea butter in the Savanes District. The product is known as "women's gold" across Africa, as it is primarly women who earn money making and selling it to consumers via small cooperatives. Used in make-up and food, shea butter is popular all over the world. An Ivorian woman from the "Femmes battantes cooperative" (Women fighters cooperative) wraps attiéké, a traditional type of couscous made from cassava tubers. Women are also in charge of the production of attiéké: They grow the cassava, process it and sell it along the side the road. This income is often used to send their children to school. The booming mining industry meanwhile remains dominated by men. But that hasn't stopped some women from wanting to work in the sector. However, they are often victims of clandestine exploitation and the work is notoriously exhausting under the blazing sun. In Ivory Coast, the cocoa sector is on the verge of a new crisis. Small traders are finding it increasingly difficult to compete with larger local cooperatives which hold most of the contracts with major chocolate manufacturers such as Mars or Nestle. Out of 3,000 cocoa cooperatives in the country, just over 200 are fair trade certified. The Basilica of Our Lady of Peace in Yamoussoukro was consecrated by Pope John Paul II in 1990 and was said to have cost $300 million (€277 million) to build. It's even bigger than St. Peter's Basilica in Rome, which it is basedon. The basilica can accommodate 200,000 people: 7,000 inside and the rest out on the esplanade. But today, only a few hundred people flock to Sunday mass. Author: Eric Lafforgue After the unexpected death, on July 8, of Prime-Minister, Amadou Gon Coulibaly, which Ouattara had handpicked to run for his succession, the 78-year-old president changed his mind on retirement. He argued that the new constitution, which imposes a two-term limit to the presidency, did not apply to his previous mandates. Thirty people died in ensuing protests. Preliminary results pointed to a overwhelming majority for Ouattara. "In the areas where President Ouattara is particularly popular and his party is predominant, the figures seem to me quite credible," analyst Paul Melly of the London-based think tank Chatham House told DW. Melly stressed that the boycott of the elections by the opposition candidates Pascal Affi N'Guessan and Henri Konan Bedie benefited the incumbent. Opposition leader Pascal Affi N'guessan rejects the results of the election he boycotted Much will depend on the election's turnout to decide how legitimate Ouattara's mandate is. But, at this point, the question is academic. "What's going to happen is very simple: there has been an election of sorts and President Ouattara will have his third term of office," said DW correspondent Bram Posthumus. "The idea that this party was going to relinquish power has always been a non-starter." The opposition maintained that the election boycott was successful, invalidating the polls. Not so, said political analyst Sylvain N'Guessan: "There is no law in Cote d'Ivoire that imposes a participation rate to validate elections." Read more: Ivory Coast court clears President Ouattara's contentious third-term bid President Alassane Ouattara 'will have his third term' Ivorians want peace Fearing a repeat of the violence 10 years ago, thousands of Ivorians left urban centers for their villages before the polls. After the 2010 presidential vote, 3,000 people died in the violence resulting from President Laurent Gbagbo's refusal to accept defeat at the hands of Ouattara. On Monday, Abidjan was back to its normal busy self. "During the weekend it was like a ghost town, which is highly unusual for this city of six and a half million people," said Posthumus. In the streets of the capital, passersby told DW of their fears. "We are scared, we don't know what's going to happen. We are praying that the different presidents listen to us," one man said. "We need God. We need peace, happiness," a woman added. "People are sick and tired of this whole political game and they want to carry on with their businesses," Posthumus said, explaining why the population will not allow itself to be mobilized in protests to the extent that happened in 2010. "There are no certainties, but it seems unlikely that violence will develop on the scale it did ten years ago," Paul Melly agreed. The country is not as dangerously divided as it was then. The current government put an end to the military split resulting from the civil war — which opposed the government army in the south to pro-Ouattara rebels in the north — by merging them into a single military structure. Chatham House analyst Paul Melly Two risks remained: localized protests with things getting "out of hand and then the security forces overreact," and ethnic violence, Melly said. At least some of the recent violence resulted from protests which degenerated into clashes between ethnic communities that back rival political factions. Already the international community is putting pressure on Ivory Coast's political elites to behave themselves. "The chief prosecutor of the International Criminal Court, Fatou Bensouda, remarked the other day that the sort of events that can sometimes happen in post-election violence are the sort of things that need people to be brought before the ICC. So that was a very clear warning," Melly said. Ivory Coast's neighbors are also certain to put pressure on Abidjan to prevent a new crisis. Apart from the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, the region is plagued by jihadist attacks in the Sahel, a putsch in Mali, a disputed election in Guinea and a unrest in neighboring Nigeria. Political analyst Fahiraman Rodrigue Kone, of the African Security Sector Network, believes that the only way forward in Ivory Coast is a national dialogue. "Whoever is elected President will have to make the effort to guarantee, once and for all, a real reconciliation process," he said. Ivory Coast is on of the world's leading cocoa producers Bram Posthumus does not believe that the opposing parties will come together any time soon. "The rhetoric coming out of both camps has been highly antagonistic," he said. Analyst Paul Melly is more sanguine. From his Belgian exile,former President Laurent Gbagbo— who was banned from running in the presidential election — has indicated a willingness to negotiate, by stressing the importance of talks, he said. Outtara has also given some indications that he is considering a dialogue. "There could be a situation where Mr. Ouattara opens up scope for some sort of discussion. It will be interesting to see what he is willing to offer the opposition as an incentive to engage in discussion with him," expert Melly said. Recently, Ouattara hinted at a possible constitutional amendment to limit the age of the president, thereby reacting to increased calls for power to be handed over to a younger generation. "We may see a bit more negotiation, a bit more flexibility that one might expect," Melly concluded. Read more: Tanzania opposition leader arrested ahead of planned protests  