The best way to protest a coronavirus-induced lockdown is to try to prevent the next one, World Health Organization spokeswoman Margaret Harris told DW. Decisions by world governments to impose lockdown measures as part of efforts to prevent the spread of the disease have often been met with resistance. Opponents of the measures often argue they are a restriction on personal liberties. "Nobody wants to go into lockdown," Harris told DW News. "But if the infection rates are high and the contract tracing teams and hospitals are overwhelmed, authorities don't have much else in the toolkit." She urged those opposed locking down to "redouble their efforts to suppress the virus with the things we know work." "Don't go into closed spaces, ventilate your homes, avoid crowds, be serious about washing your hands, wear a mask," Harris said. "That's how you protest against the lockdown — do things to make sure you don't have to go into another one." Here's a roundup of the latest developments around the world. France is now the worst coronavirus affected country in Europe, overtaking Russia. The country reported 35,879 new cases on Wednesday, taking the national total to 1,865,538 million. The country is almost two weeks into a new lockdown. International aid group Doctors Without Borders (MSF) said it is recruiting emergency help for nursing homes in France to help with surging infections. Coordinator Olivia Gayraud said the emergency program is focused on relieving over-worked staff, adding that MSF has "expertise in crisis management" and experience helping "populations whose lives and health are threatened.'' Read more:Joe Biden's biggest task: Fighting COVID-19 Both cities will launch a 'travel bubble' on November 22, which will allow people to move quarantine free in each direction, their governments announced on Wednesday (Nov 11), in a rare piece of good news for the pandemic-battered tourism industry. A quota of 200 residents from each city will be able to travel on one daily bubble flight to the other. Machu Picchu, the ancient Inca city in the Peruvian Andes mountains, has reopened almost eight months after it was closed down due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Peruvian authorities organized an Inca ritual to mark the reopening. To allow for distancing, a maximum of 675 tourists per day are allowed to enter the old Inca city. That is less than a third of the normal number allowed. Rio de Janeiro's famous annual Carnival spectacle will not go ahead in February. Organizers said the spread of the coronavirus in Brazil made it impossible to safely hold parades which with some seven million people celebrating are a cultural mainstay, tourism magnet and, for many, a source of livelihood. Brazil has the second highest death rate in the world after the United States and India. To curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic the German government has announced though new measures to start Monday, November 2. The new restrictions effect the travel business as overnight stays in hotels for tourist purposes will be banned, entertainment facilities such as theaters and cinemas will be closed as will bars and restaurants, which will only be allowed to offer take out services. The city announced on Monday (Oct.26) that this decision had been made in view of the rapidly increasing number of coronavirus cases. The mayor explained that it was to be assumed that in the near future the Covid-19 traffic light in Nuremberg will change to dark red. "Against this background, we think it would be the wrong signal to go ahead with the annual Christkindlesmarkt Christmas market. The Canary Islands are no longer on the list of corona risk areas, the Robert Koch Institute announced on Thursday (Oct. 22). The abolition of the travel warning for the Canary Islands should above all please tour operators. For them, the islands off the coast of Africa with their year-round summer climate are one of the most important sources of hope for the winter season. Starting October 15, some of the Caribbean state have been reopened for international flights, with Havana a notable exception. Every visitor is tested for the coronavirus upon arrival, and a team of doctors is available in every hotel. The German vacation airline Condor plans to offer flights to Cuba's most popular tourist destination, the Varadero peninsula, starting October 31. Discussions are underway between Australia and low-risk countries across Asia and the Pacific to lift coronavirus travel restrictions, but the government has warned that travel to the US and Europe may not be an option until 2022. From Friday, Australia will open its international borders for the first time since March, allowing visitors from New Zealand to travel to the country quarantine-free. The cruise industry has decided to make coronavirus testing mandatory for all guests and crew members aboard cruise ships. The Cruise Lines International Association, the world’s largest such organization, announced on October 8 that passengers can only board ships by providing proof of a negative test result. All member shipping companies worldwide must now comply with this rule. In the wake of significant increases in coronavirus infection figures in Europe, Berlin has announced further EU countries as risk areas for travelers. In addition to Belgium and Iceland, additional areas of France and Great Britain, including all of Northern Ireland and Wales, were also classified as risk areas on September 30. Thailand is to receive its first foreign vacationers when a flight from China arrives next week, marking the gradual restart of a vital tourism sector battered by coronavirus travel curbs, a senior official said on Tuesday. The first flight will carry some 120 tourists from Guangzhou, flying directly to the resort island of Phuket. India's most famous building was closed for six months, but since Monday ( September 21) it can be visited again, under strict restrictions. Only 5000 online tickets will be issued per day. There are temperature checks at the entrance. Selfies are allowed, group photos are prohibited. The Taj Mahal is a UNESCO World Heritage Site and is normally visited by 8 million people every year. The Foreign Ministry has reacted to higher numbers of coronavirus infections on September 16 by issuing further travel warnings, including Vienna and Budapest. The province of North Holland with Amsterdam as well as South Holland with the cities of The Hague and Rotterdam are also affected. New risk areas were also identified in the Czech Republic, Romania, Croatia, France, and Switzerland. Because of the coronavirus pandemic, the tourism sector has suffered a loss of 460 billion dollars (388 billion euros) from January to June, the World Tourism Organization reported in Madrid. The loss of sales was five times higher than during the international financial and economic crisis of 2009, and the total number of tourists worldwide fell by 65 percent in the first half of the year. Germany’s Foreign Office has warned against unnecessary tourism to Czech capital, Prague, and the Swiss cantons Geneva and Vaud (Vaud). This also applies to the French Mediterranean island of Corsica, the French regions Auvergne-Rhones-Alpes (around Lyon), Nouvelle-Aquitaine (around Bordeaux) and Occitania (around Toulouse) as well as more Croatian Adriatic areas, such as the city of Dubrovnik. The German government has extended its travel warning for around 160 countries through September 30. The advisory applies to "third countries" — i.e. countries that are not members of the EU or associated with the Schengen area. From October 1st, a "differentiated system" will apply, in which individual travel and safety information will be given for each country. Australia has extended its travel restrictions for a further three months. The borders will remain closed for visitors from abroad until at least December 17. However, the government announced that domestic travel will soon be allowed for residents of the country. An exception will be the state of Victoria, with its metropolis Melbourne, for which a lockdown has been in place since early July. The German government has extended the travel warning for around 160 countries outside the European Union by two weeks until September 14. A spokeswoman for the German Foreign Ministry explained the move on Wednesday (Aug 26) with rising coronavirus infection rates. "The situation will not relax sufficiently by mid-September to be able to lift the worldwide travel warning," she said. With 2,500 instead of 6,000 passengers, the MSC Grandiosa left the port of Genoa on August 16. Stops on the seven-day voyage include Naples, Palermo and Valletta. Passengers and crew were tested for coronavirus before boarding, and body temperature is to be checked on a daily basis. Rival cruise company Costa will not be offering Mediterranean cruises again until September. Germany's health and interior ministries have agreed that all of Spain — apart from the Canary Islands — is now a high-risk area due to a surge in cases. Spain said it was closing night clubs across the country. Restaurants, bars and similar venues would need to close by 1 a. m. and would not be allowed to take in new guests after midnight. In the first six months of 2020, 59% fewer tourists came to Berlin than in the previous year. The Statistics Office said on August 10 that 2.7 million guests had visited Berlin, the lowest number since 2004. The slump was even worse for foreign tourists: two thirds stayed away. Since June, the figures have been recovering and are at 30 to 40% of the previous year. Anyone entering Germany from a high-risk area must take a coronavirus test from August 8, after an order by Health Minister Jens Spahn. Currently, many countries are classified as risk areas, including the United States and Brazil. In the European Union, Luxembourg, the Belgian region of Antwerp and the Spanish regions of Aragon, Catalonia and Navarre were risk areas as of early August. Norwegian cruise operator Hurtigruten has stopped all cruises on August 3 until further notice after an outbreak of the coronavirus on one of its ships. At least 40 passengers and crew members on the Roald Amundsen tested positive for COVID-19. Meanwhile, German cruise line Aida Cruises has also postponed its planned restart due to the lack of necessary permits. Despite coronavirus uncertainty, Nepal has reopened Mount Everest for the autumn trekking and climbing season. To boost the struggling tourism sector the government will permit international flights to land in the country from August 17. The Himalayan country shut its borders in March just ahead of the busy spring season when hundreds of mountaineers usually flock to the country. Concerned over a possible second wave of coronavirus, Amsterdam has requested that tourists not visit the Dutch capital on weekends. Potential day-trippers should come between Monday and Thursday, the city said on July 23. The tourist influx has swelled to such a degree that recommended social distancing of 1.5 meters between people is currently not possible in the city center. In order to manage tourist throngs amid the pandemic, Bavaria's Economy Minister Hubert Aiwanger is planning a live digital guiding system for visitors. Clogged streets, wild campers and overcrowding on hiking trails in the Alps — this brings popular regions such as Lake Tegernsee (photo) to their limits. The live update system is primarily intended to redirect day-trippers to less full areas. Holiday flights within Europe are on the move again, with passengers sitting close together. According to an opinion poll by the International Air Transport Association (IATA), 62% of those questioned are afraid of being infected by passengers in the next seat. This was identified by IATA as the main reason for the decline in willingness to travel, which is now only 45%. The Alhambra Castle in Granada in southern Spain opened its doors to tourists again on June 17. Initially, only 4,250 visitors were admitted at the same time — only half as many as usual. In addition, masks are mandatory. The Alhambra is considered the most important testimony to Arab architecture in Europe and is a World Heritage site. Entry regulations, masks, quarantine? The new EU overview website "reopen.europa.eu" provides information on the coronavirus rules of individual EU countries — and in 24 languages. Tourists can enter their destination country on the website and find out about regulations that apply there. So far, the site contains information on 27 EU countries and is to be continuously updated. Author: Andreas Kirchhoff, Susan Bonney-Cox Germany: Germany has recorded 21,866 new cases in 24 hours, while 215 people died in that time. Health Minister Jens Spahn said he expects restrictions to continue through winter and that he does not expect life to return to normal in December or January even if infections fall. "I don't see events with more than 10 or 15 people happening this winter," Spahn told RBB broadcaster. Sweden: Swedish Prime Minister Stefan Lofven said his government is planning to present a law proposal that would ban nationwide the sale of alcohol after 10pm in bars, restaurants and night clubs. It is expected to take effect on November 20. "We are facing a (COVID-19) situation that risks becoming pitch-black'' and added that Sweden "currently is risking a situation like the one we had last spring." Earlier Wednesday, Stockholm reintroduced a ban on visiting elderly care homes after a coronavirus spike was reported in retirement homes in the capital.Sweden has recorded 166,707 COVID-19 casesand 6,082 deaths since the start of the pandemic. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3l6p2 Spain: The COVID-19 death toll soared to over 40,000 with infections passing the 1.4 million mark, while the rate of new cases continued to grow. With 349 people dying in the past 24 hours, the national death toll now stands at 40,105. Ukraine: President Volodymyr Zelenskiy has been hospitalized after contracting the virus earlier this week. Officials said he was not in a serious condition. Ukraine's finance minister, the defence minister and Zelenskiy's top aide have also been infected. The country recorded a record high of 11,057 cases on Thursday. Turkey: The Interior ministry has banned smoking in public places across the country help enforce the mask mandate. Smoking will be banned in busy streets, bus stops and public squares when necessary. Japan: Olympic organizers have said that athletes who arrive in Japan to take part in the Tokyo Olympics will not have to isolate for the required 14 days after arrival. The 2020 Games were delayed by a year due to the pandemic. International Olympic Committee president Thomas Bach will fly to Tokyo on Sunday to reassure Japan that next year's games will take place under safe conditions. India: Cases are climbing ahead of the Diwali — the Hindu festival of lights. Across the country there were 47,905 new cases, including a record 8,593 in the capital, New Delhi. Despite a ban, thousands of fireworks are expected to worsen air quality and lead to higher risk factors for patients as ICUs reach capacity. New Zealand: New Zealand was hit with its first untraceable case of COVID-19 since August. An Auckland woman in her 20s tested positive and authorities could find no link to other cases. Read more: Coronavirus in New Zealand: Auckland residents stay home after mystery infection United States: US infections hit a new record for a second day running, nothing up 142,279 infections in 24 hours. The number of people hospitalized due to the virus hit at least 64,939 by late Wednesday, the highest ever during the pandemic. At least 1,464 people died in that time. New York is the latest state to impose new social distancing restrictions. Argentina: President Alberto Fernandez has said he is self-isolating due to possible exposure to the coronavirus. The 61-year-old posted on Twitter that he was a "close contact" of Secretary for Strategic Affairs of the Presidency Gustavo Beliz, who tested positive for COVID-19. He said a first swab for the virus gave a negative result but that he would still self-isolate "in compliance with isolation protocols as recommended by my doctor and the health authorities." Argentina has so far registered over 1.2 million cases with over 4,000 deaths since the beginning of the pandemic. Extra funding: States and private charities will pledge more than $500 million (€425 million) for coronavirus at the Paris Peace Forum, according to the organizers of the event. The annual meeting between government and civil society organisations and charitable foundations will lead to a boost in funding for the ACT-Accelerator initiative, a program meant to help ensure global access to COVID-19 tests, therapeutics and vaccines. India production: The Serum Institute of India, the world's largest vaccine producer, announced it has produced 40 million doses of AstraZeneca's potential vaccine and that it will soon start making Novavax's rival shot. Both are still seeking regulatory approval, with 1,600 participants enrolled in India for late-stage trials of AstraZeneca's candidate. Minks: As fears rise that mutations could hamper efforts to create an effective coronavirus vaccine, Denmark prepared to cull millions of minks. But many won't be killed — until they're ready for a scarf or hat. Read more: Amid Danish mink cull, fur remains in fashion German ICUs: The number of COVID-19 patients in intensive care beds in Germany is growing dramatically. Hospitals are prepared for the new onslaught in terms of infrastructure — but not in terms of staff. Read more: SOS at German intensive care units Joe Biden: President-elect Joe Biden has ambitious plans to tackle the coronavirus pandemic. Experts look forward to a new leadership style that could make a crucial difference in the fight against COVID-19. Read more: Joe Biden's biggest task: Fighting COVID-19 EU vacine: The EU has greenlit a deal with the US and German firms to secure 300 million doses of their coronavirus vaccine for the bloc. Deliveries are expected to start by the end of this year. Read more: EU seals deal with BioNTech, Pfizer to secure doses German research: Biontech and Pfizer have announced that they are on the brink of emergency-use approval for a coronavirus vaccine. The scientists responsible, Ugur Sahin and Özlem Türeci, are from Germany. Read more: German researchers advance coronavirus vaccine Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3lAK7 dv, aw, mvb/msh (AFP, Reuters, AP, dpa)  