Courts in the US states Pennsylvania and Michigan on Friday denied more attempts by Republicans and supporters of US Donald Trump to change the result of this month's elections. A Pennsylvania federal appeals court rejected an effort to block thousands of mail-in votes, while a court in Michigan declined a request to stop the certification of election votes in Detroit. Read more: After Trump's loss: What does the future hold for Republicans? In his bid for a second term, Trump lost to former-Vice President Joe Biden in the November 3 poll but has repeatedly and baselessly alleged voter fraud. The US president has refused to concede the election, as is tradition of the losing candidate, and in a tweet on Friday said, "This Election was Rigged." Twitter labeled the tweet "disputed" as there is no evidence of fraud in the US presidential election. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3lHUh The court rulings come as some media made final projections for the presidential election. Trump was declared the winner of North Carolina on Friday, while US media has projected Biden as the winner of Georgia. Those results would give Biden 306 electoral votes and Trump 232. Read more: America is back? — Biden's 5 biggest economic challenges A federal appeals court in Pennsylvania has blocked an effort led by a Republican congressional candidate to throw out 9,300 mail-in votes that arrived after election day but within the period allowed by state law. The ruling involves a decision by the state's supreme court to allow for mail-in votes to be counted on November 6, three days after polling stations in the state closed. Putin's spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters that the Kremlin will refrain from commenting on Biden's victory until legal challenges to the election are resolved and the result is official. "Certain legal procedures are coming there, which were announced by the incumbent president, therefore this situation is different, so we consider it correct to wait for the official announcement." On November 13, China congratulated Joe Biden on his victory nearly a week after he was declared the winner of the US presidential election. "We respect the choice of the American people," China's foreign ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin said. He added: "At the same time, the result will be confirmed according to US laws and procedures." The right-wing president had said he would be the first leader in the world to congratulate Donald Trump. But Bolsonaro has remained silent on Biden. "I think the president is waiting for this imbroglio over fraudulent votes to be resolved," Vice President Hamilton Mourao told reporters. Bolsonaro will congratulate Biden "at the right time" and see what happens with Trump's lawsuits. Lopez Obrador has said he was bound by the constitution from offering his congratulations to the winner until the legal disputes were sorted out, reiterating an earlier posture. "How can a president of Mexico become a judge and say: 'This candidate won'?" Lopez Obrador told a news conference. He briefly referred to Biden as the "possible president-elect", before emphasizing Mexico took no side. There has been no response to Biden's results from Kim. North Korean state media has been silent on the US elections as of Monday. But Pyongyang made no mention of Donald Trump's 2016 victory either until two days after his election. In the past, Kim has called Biden "a fool of low IQ." Biden, meanwhile, has described Kim as a "thug." The far-right anti-immigration Slovenian Democratic Party leader, who prematurely hailed Trump as the winner of the election long before the vote counts were near completion, is yet to congratulate Biden. Jansa has repeated allegations of voter fraud carried out by Democrats. He has tweeted, however, that Slovenia hoped for "friendly relations" with Washington. Author: Melissa Sou-Jie Van Brunnersum Read more: German US vote observer calls Trump's allegations 'baseless' US Circuit Court Judge Brooks Smith, one of three judges on the panel, cited noted the "unprecedented challenges" the country has faced this year, especially the "vast disruption" that is the coronavirus pandemic. The court sought to uphold "a proposition indisputable in our democratic process: that the lawfully cast vote of every citizen must count," Smith said. Biden won Pennsylvania  by an estimated 62,000 votes out of over 6.8 million cast. The Trump campaign and its Republican surrogates have filed 15 legal challenges in Pennsylvania contesting the result. Read more: Trump biographer: 'He'll finally get what he wanted' An effort by Trump supporters in Michigan to change the state's election result also fell short. A state court denied their request to block the certification of votes and appoint an independent auditor in Detroit. Results in Wayne County, in which Motor City lies, heavily favored Biden. The lawsuit alleged fraud and voting irregularities in the county, which it denies. Chief Justice Timothy Kenny of the Third Judicial Circuit Court of Michigan rejected those allegations, saying in his ruling that the "plaintiffs' interpretation of events is incorrect and not credible." "It would be an unprecedented exercise of judicial activism for this Court to stop the certification process of the Wayne County Board of Canvassers," Kenny wrote in his ruling. Biden won by nearly 150,000 votes in Michigan, a state in which Trump was victorious in 2016. Michigan is set to certify its election results on November 23. Read more: What will happen to Donald Trump?  dv/sms (AP, Reuters)