US President Donald Trump on Wednesday repeated his plan to move some troops from Germany to Poland, while criticizing Berlin for not meeting a NATO defense-spending target and for acquiring energy from Russia. "They will be paying for the sending of additional troops, and we will probably be moving them from Germany to Poland," Trump said during a press conference together with Polish President Andrzej Duda. He said the United States would be decreasing its armed forces presence in Germany "very substantially." Some of the troops would be heading back to the US, while others would be redeployed elsewhere, such as Poland. Read more: Opinion: Punishment for disobedient Germany Asked how the decision would be viewed by the Kremlin, Trump said: "It sends a very strong signal to Russia, but I think a stronger signal sent to Russia is the fact that Germany is paying Russia billions of dollars to purchase energy from Russia through the pipeline." The US president has previously expressed his frustration at the Nord Stream 2 pipeline , and has said he is planning the withdrawal of 9,500 troops from Germany. At his meeting with Duda, Trump also questioned why the US is "supposed to defend Germany from Russia" and said German citizens are not happy about the situation. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3dsdN European security Duda, asked the US president not to reduce the American armed forces' presence in Europe as it would destabilize the continent's security. Read more: Stoltenberg — US presence in Europe is important for NATO "I turned to the president, asking him not to withdraw troops from Europe as Europe's security is important to me," Duda said. The presence of the United States military has made peace more viable in Europe since the end of World War II, he said, adding that Poland was ready and willing to take in more US troops. Despite a significant coronavirus outbreak in Moscow, over 14,000 troops, 200 armored vehicles, and 75 aircraft participated in the Victory Day celebration in Moscow's Red Square. Representatives from 13 other countries were also present. The traditional May 9 Victory Day celebration, which commemorates the Soviet Union’s defeat of Nazi Germany in World War II, was postponed due to the coronavirus outbreak. "Victory Day and the Great Patriotic War, as it’s known here, have become part of the official state ideology here in Russia," DW’s Moscow correspondent Emily Sherwin reported. The celebration in Red Square saw President Vladimir Putin flanked by elderly World War II veterans in uniform. It took place on the eve of vote on constitutional changes that, if passed, would allow Putin two more six-year presidential terms if re-elected. Current law bars him from seeking re-election when his term ends in 2024. With over 8,000 fatalities and some 600,000 confirmed infections, Russia has the third-largest coronavirus overall caseload in the world, after the US and Brazil. Just days ago, the World Health Organization reiterated its warning to Russia that mass events risk spreading the deadly infection. Author: Kristie Pladson jsi/rc (AFP, dpa)  