12:37 The eastern German state of Thuringia announced that it will get rid of its social distancing restrictions on June 13, putting it on a collision course with the federal government. According to a directive passed by Thuringia's state cabinet, the small state will get rid of current rules recommending that its residents only meet up either with members of one other household or with a maximum of 10 people. The move goes against an agreement reached with Chancellor Angela Merkel's government and the other leaders of Germany's 16 states to keep the restrictions in place at least until the end of June. 11:52 A UN human rights expert has voiced alarm that the COVID-19 pandemic — in particular a border closure with China and strict quarantine measures — has caused "widespread food shortages and malnutrition" in North Korea. Tomas Ojea Quintana, UN special rapporteur on human rights for the country, urged the UN security Council to "reconsider sanctions" imposed on the isolated country. North Korea, which suffered a famine in the mid-1990s the is believed to have killed as many as 3 million people, is among the only countries in the world not to report cases of COVID-19 disease to the World Health Organization. The pandemic has brought "drastic economic hardship" to North Korea, Ojea Quintana said. He noted a 90% fall in trade with China in March and April that led to lost incomes. 11:35 Spain has said it would prefer a Europe-wide approach to the 2020 summer tourist season, and is not in talks with the UK to allow unrestricted travel via "air bridges," a Spanish foreign ministry official told Reuters news agency. "Spain has called for a common (EU-wide) approach to opening the borders. If this is not done, it will establish its own criteria," the source said. On Monday, the UK introduced a 14-day quarantine for international arrivals, however, government officials have said they are looking at travel corridors that could allow British vacationers to access a selection of destinations with a low infection rate. Britain has recorded more COVID-19 infections than any other country in Europe. Meanwhile, Madrid has approved a request by the Balearic Islands to allow entry for up to 6,000 German tourists starting next week, the Spanish newspaper El Pais reported Monday. The regional government in Palma de Majorca said the move is a test run ahead of the tourist rush expected before Spain opens its borders on July 1. The island of Majorca is a traditional favorite among German sun-seekers. The regional government said Germany was chosen because its COVID-19 caseload seems to be under control and is currently at a similar level to that on the Balearics. 11:15 The antiviral drug remdesivir prevented lung disease in macaques infected with the new coronavirus, a study published in the medical journal Nature says. Remdesivir has been cleared for emergency use in severely-ill patients in the US, India and South Korea. Trials of the drug in humans are ongoing, and early data has shown it can help patients recover more quickly from COVID-19. In the study, 12 monkeys were deliberately infected with the coronavirus, and half given early treatment with remdesivir. Macaques that received the drug showed no signs of respiratory disease and had reduced damage to the lungs, according to the study authors. 10:15 Employees in Japan have adapted to working at home and companies appear to be happy with the financial benefits. But, there are concerns that something might be lost if this becomes the "new normal" for companies. Read more: Coronavirus: Is home office becoming a new normal in Japan? 09:35 Officials in the Indian capital, New Delhi, have reversed orders that limited the scope of coronavirus testing and reserved hospital beds for city residents. The measure was announced as Delhi’s caseload continues to surge. The number of infected people jumped to 29,943 on Tuesday. India has some 266,598 cases in all, the fifth-most in the world. Since he came to power in 2013, the city’s chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has prioritized investing in health care, raising standards far above those in other parts of India. As a result, the capital draws patients from across the country. With an easing of the lockdown in the city, the number of infections has risen dramatically. On Sunday, Kejriwal announced that hospital beds for COVID-19 patients would be reserved for city residents with testing limited to those with symptoms. With facilities like the Max Smart Super Speciality Hospital, Delhi's health care is far better than in most of India However, the central government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi strongly objected to the rules, which Kejriwal agreed to set aside. The chief minister tweet that: "making arrangements for treatment for people from across the country during the COVID-19 pandemic is a major challenge. But maybe it's God's will that we have to serve everyone in the country." 09:15 German exports have plunged by more than 30% year-on-year in April, marking the steepest fall yet since current records began in 1950. Read more: German exports take unprecedented dive The coronavirus crisis and its accompanying lockdowns have made it extremely hard to sell any goods to foreign customers as well as domestic ones. 08:50 A study by Harvard Medical School has shown that SARS-CoV-2 may have been spreading in China in August 2019, months earlier than when the COVID-19 outbreak is thought to have started in the central city of Wuhan in December. Read more: Novel coronavirus may have been spreading since August — study Researchers used satellite imagery of hospital parking lots in Wuhan and analyzed queries on search engines for terms related to COVID-19 symptoms, like "cough" or "diarrhea." "Increased hospital traffic and symptom search data in Wuhan preceded the documented start of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic in December 2019," according to the research. 07:45 Russia has reported 8,595 new cases of the novel coronavirus as the capital, Moscow, emerges from lockdown. The number of infections nationwide is now 485,253, and the number of new infections is still increasing steadily. Authorities said that 171 people had died from the virus in the last 24 hours, pushing the total death toll to 6,142. 07:00 The Catholic Church in the Philippines warned against buying "holy alcohol" and other products claiming to protect against the coronavirus. "There is no sacramental holy alcohol that we should make the sign of the cross with when we rub it to ourselves," the Catholic Bishops Conference of the Philippines (CBCP) said in a statement. "Moreover, it should not be sprinkled on the faithful." Read more: Philippines: Church warns against 'holy alcohol' for COVID-19  They likewise warned that holy face masks, holy face shields, holy hand sanitizer and holy personal protective equipment do not exist. "This is an irreverent marketing strategy or gimmick," the statement added. Churches across the predominantly Catholic country were closed for months due to the COVID-19 lockdown, although some restrictions have eased starting in June. Some Catholic churches reopened to worshippers over the weekend, although the number of people allowed to attend mass is limited. 06:10 Pakistan has recorded more than 100 COVID-19 deaths in a single day for the first time since record-keeping began in mid-March. The government of Prime Minister Imran Khan has been criticized for not enforcing strict lockdown measures, especially during the busy holy month of Ramadan. Pakistani health authorities warn that the South Asian country is not likely to experience a peak in infections before August. Despite this, Khan has continued to ease lockdown restrictions, saying the country's economy will collapse if business and commerce remains closed. 04:30 Cinemas in California will be able to reopen after being closed for nearly three months due to the coronavirus pandemic, the US state's health department says. Movie theaters can resume business again on Friday provided they follow strict health guidelines, officials announced. 03:15 Germany has reported 252 new cases, and 16 more deaths, according to data released by the Robert Koch Institute for infectious diseases. Overall, 184,193 people have been diagnosed with COVID-19, while 8,674 people have died. 02:33 Russia has ended lockdown restrictions in Moscow after two months of stay-at-home orders and has also eased foreign travel restrictions. Russians can now leave the country to care for sick relatives, for work, education or medical treatment. Foreigners can also enter the country to care for relatives or for medical treatment. The new travel rules came into effect after a decree by Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin. In Moscow, residents of Russia's hardest-hit city will no require a special pass to travel around, and restaurants will be able to open outdoor verandas from June 16 and return to regular operations a week after that. 6000 Germans will be the first foreign tourists to be allowed to travel to the Balearic Islands from Monday (June 15). According to Spanish media, the pilot project is intended to test the security precautions at airports and hotels before all of Spain opens its borders on July 1. Germany was chosen because the epidemiological situation there is similar to that on the Balearic Islands. A new app is to help manage the flow of visitors to the Baltic Sea beaches, Schleswig-Holstein's state premier Daniel Günther announced on June 7. Visitors use the app to register their desired time slot on the beach. If there is enough space available, they will be given an access authorization. The municipality of Scharbeutz developed the system, which could now also be used by other places. After having to close because of the coronavirus crisis, the casinos in Las Vegas reopened on Thursday (June 5). Hygiene precautions are to reduce the risk of infection. Visitor capacity has been reduced to half, plexiglass panels separate players from croupiers, and the casino tokens (chips) are regularly disinfected. Nightclubs and big shows in the casinos are still not allowed at the moment. Berlin's Tegel Airport will not be temporarily closed after all. Airport manager Engelbert Lütke Daldrup said on Wednesday (June 3) that the number of passengers was even expected to rise again. Earlier, the German government had announced that it would lift its travel warnings for 29 European countries on June 15. On that day, Tegel was supposed to go off the grid. Starting on Wednesday (June 3), tourists from Europe have been allowed to enter Italy again, the country that was one of the worst hit by the coronavirus pandemic worldwide. A two-week quarantine for travellers from Europe is no longer required. This should save the travel season. Italians will again be able to move freely throughout the country and travel to other regions. Neuschwanstein Castle — since Tuesday June 2 — is again open to tourists. Previously, the Bavarian state government had made a whole range of tourist attractions such as the boat trip on Lake Starnberg or Nymphenburg Castle accessible again. One of the attractions that will remain closed due to the coronavirus because of restricted space is the royal house at Schachen. The Zugspitze, Germany's highest mountain at 2962 meters (9718 ft.), is accessible again. From Saturday (May 30) the cable cars and chair lifts in Bavaria are allowed to run again. Physical distancing and compulsory facemasks are a matter of course, the number of passengers is limited to 35% of the transport capacity. The first mountain huts are also opening again. This is the first large amusement park in the world to resume operations. Rules are: Facemasks must be worn in the queue and every second seat must be left empty. More than 2.5 million tickets have already been requested online for the coming weeks. The Europapark Rust, located in the triangle of Germany, France and Switzerland, attracted 5.7 million visitors last year. The 14 cruise ships of the German Rostock-based shipping company Aida Cruises will remain in port until July 31. In many holiday destination countries the regulations for international tourism are still being discussed, the company announced. The Italian shipping company Costa is also extending the cruise suspension for its fleet until July 31. Rome's 2,000-year-old landmark can finally be visited again from June 1, and the Vatican Museums will also reopen on that day. Ancient Pompeii, south of Naples at the foot of Mount Vesuvius, is already welcoming visitors again, but only those from within the country. From June 3, however, foreign tourists will be able to return to Italy and visit the ancient sites. From today (May 26) one of the most sacred places of Christianity will be open to the public again. Only 50 people can enter the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem; wearing facemasks is compulsory. While Jews have already been allowed to pray again at the Western Wall also known as the Wailing Wall, in Jerusalem, the Al-Aqsa Mosque on the Temple Mount is to open to Muslims at the end of the week. From Monday (May 25), Greece's islands will be accessible again by plane and ferry for domestic tourists. Taverns, bars and cafes are reopening nationwide. Ferries are to sell only 50% of their tickets, and taverns are only allowed to occupy half of their tables. The list of countries from which foreign tourists can enter Greece without a two-week quarantine will be announced at the end of May. Starting on May 22, visitors will again be allowed on to the viewing platform and restaurant of the Berlin TV tower. Only about 50 people are allowed in at any one time, masks are mandatory, and tickets must be reserved online. At 368 meters (1207 ft.), the Berlin Television Tower is the tallest building in Germany and a popular tourist hotspot. Due to the coronavirus pandemic, Japanese authorities have imposed a climbing ban on Mount Fuji on May 18, and all four routes on the mountain have been closed. Normally during the climbing season in summer, which lasts only two months, thousands of people climb the slopes of the volcano daily in single file. At 3,776 meters (12,389 feet), the mountain is the highest in Japan. In Greece, all beaches in the country were reopened on May 16. According to media reports, strict regulations were observed: The distance between parasols had to be four meters and only two sunbeds per parasol were allowed. Beach bars could only sell packaged food and not serve alcohol. Is this a preview of summer holidays in Europe despite the coronavirus pandemic? From May 15, people entering North Rhine-Westphalia from other EU countries and Schengen states no longer have to go into a 14-day home quarantine. The other German states are to follow in the next few days. Iceland, Norway, Liechtenstein and Switzerland are also exempt from the quarantine regulations, making travel to neighboring countries much easier. On May 16, Germany opened its borders to neighboring countries France, Austria and Switzerland. There will only be random checks, and no more checks at all for Luxembourg. However, there must still be "good" reasons for crossing the border. And love is accepted as such. For example, German-Swiss couples at Lake Constance (photo) — can visit each other again. The Austrian government has announced that the border with Germany will be opened on June 15. Tourism in Austria has been effectively suspended due to the coronavirus pandemic. On May 29, hotels and other accommodation in Austria will be allowed to reopen. Austrian tourism is heavily dependent on guests from Germany. Borkum, Juist (photo) and the other East Frisian islands are happy to be able to greet tourists again, even if it's a limited surge of visitors. Since May 11, overnight stays in holiday apartments and camping sites throughout Lower Saxony have been allowed again. Holidaymakers must stay at least one week. However, day tourists and hotel overnight stays are still prohibited. Thuringians are pioneers. Weimar is the first city in Germany to reopen restaurants and cafés. Since May 6, people have been sitting in the sun with a coffee or beer and enjoying a step back towards normality — while keeping their distance. Restaurants and hotels in the other federal states will also resume their limited operations by the end of May. Holidaymakers might also be able to travel to the Balearic or Greek Islands in summer. "If there are very few new infections there and the medical care works, one could also think about a summer holiday in those places", the government's commissioner for tourism, Thomas Bareiss, told the Tagesspiegel newpaper. Long-distance travel, however, is likely to be cancelled this summer. On May 18, the coronavirus lockdown for Bavaria's outdoor gastronomy ended and the beer gardens have reopened. Of course under strict conditions — waiters have to wear masks, for example. On May 25, indoor gastronomy is to follow, restaurants and cafes, with a limited number of guests. From May 30, the operation of hotels, and holiday homes in Bavaria will be allowed again. Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania is the first federal state to reopen to tourists from all over Germany: From May 25th they can again stay in hotels, guest houses and holiday homes. 60 percent of the bed capacity will be released for this purpose. This means that the tourist season can start with the Whitsun holidays in popular holiday regions like the Baltic Sea and the Mecklenburg Lake District. One of Beijing's most important sights can be visited again after months of closure due to the coronavirus crisis. From Friday (May 1), visitors are allowed back into the palace complex on Tiananmen Square under strict security conditions. Instead of the previously usual 80,000 visitors, a maximum of 5,000 guests are to be admitted daily. Germany extended on Wednesday (April 29) its worldwide travel warning due to the coronavirus crisis to at least June 14. The Federal Foreign Office said that "severe and drastic restrictions in international air and travel traffic and worldwide entry restrictions, quarantine measures and restrictions on public life in many countries can still be expected." Gastronomes have set up empty chairs in central locations in Germany, such as here in Düsseldorf, to draw attention to their situation in the coronavirus crisis. "Without direct financial aid, most of our businesses will not survive," says Guido Zöllick, President of the German Hotel and Restaurant Association. "Suppliers and partners are also increasingly being drawn deeper into economic crisis." Austria's Chancellor Sebastian Kurz is confident that the border between Austria and Germany will soon be opened again for tourists. Both countries are on the right track in containing the spread of the coronavirus, Kurz told ARD television on Wednesday (April 22). This is the precondition for a revival of tourism. He did not name an exact date for the opening of borders. "A normal holiday season with crowded beach bars and busy mountain huts will not be possible this summer. That would be unacceptable," German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said on Tuesday (April 21). However, he did not rule out the possibility that borders for tourists could be reopened before the summer and that holiday travel with certain restrictions might be possible. The Oktoberfest has been cancelled this year due to the coronavirus pandemic. Bavaria's premier Markus Söder and Munich's mayor Dieter Reiter announced the decision on Tuesday (April 21). "It pains us, and it is a great pity", said Söder. But in times of the coronavirus, the danger of infection at the folk festival, which attracts about six million visitors annually, would just be too great. The Prime Minister of Schleswig-Holstein, Daniel Günther, hopes that tourism on the North and Baltic Seas will be revived in the summer. Despite the coronavirus crisis, he "definitely did not write off the summer tourism business," he said on April 19. While they are now proscribed, stays in secondary residences, holiday homes and finally hotels could be made possible again in three steps. The government resolutions (April 15th) stipulate that people in Germany should continue to refrain from making private trips. The worldwide travel warning is to be upheld. Accommodation offers are only available for necessary and explicitly non-touristic purposes. Restaurants will also remain closed. Tourism is one of the industries that has been hit hardest in the coronavirus crisis. The entry ban imposed by the USA on foreign nationals from Europe will remain in place for the time being. Italy and Spain are still struggling with the coronavirus crisis and France has just extended measures to contain infections by the virus, US President Donald Trump said on Monday (April 13). The entry ban will remain in force until the countries show signs of improvement, Trump said. Hotels, cafes and souvenir shops are closed. It is unusually empty outside the Royal Palace in Palma (picture). The Easter season on the Spanish holiday island of Mallorca has been cancelled. The Majorcan hotel association now fears that due to the uncertain situation in the main markets of Germany and Great Britain, some hotels will remain closed even during the peak season. By Sunday (April, 5) 205,000 travelers had been brought back to Germany, according to the federal government. Airplanes from Peru and Colombia were the most recent to take off. More than 40,000 Germans however are still stranded abroad. Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said on Twitter. "We will continue our efforts to find solutions for the travelers who have not yet been able to return." Thousands of foreigners stranded in New Zealand because of the coronavirus crisis will be able to leave the Pacific state from Friday (April 3). On Thursday, the New Zealand government announced that it would allow the "safe and orderly departure of tens of thousands" of stranded people. Earlier it had stopped return flights by foreign governments. A light installation on the Matterhorn in Switzerland is giving a sign of solidarity and hope in the fight against the corona virus. Encouraging messages are also being projected on to many other tourist landmarks around the world. "Stay safe", "Stay at home" could be see on Monday evening on the Great Pyramid in Giza near the Egyptian capital Cairo. The repatriation process for Germans stranded abroad is ongoing. Until now, main destinations such as Egypt or Morocco have been addressed. "It will be more difficult with countries that only have small groups of scattered adventure vacationers," said the crisis manager of the German Foreign Office. Tourists in the Pacific Islands must first be rounded up in New Zealand and then flown out. After long delays Thailand closed its borders on Thursday (March 26). The authorities had delayed the decision for a long time to safeguard the tourism sector. Now tens of thousands of tourists are stuck in the Southeast Asian tourist country. The German government has so far not organized a repatriation for German tourists, as Thailand is not considered a risk region. The German foreign ministry announced on Wednesday (March 25) that, together with tour operators, it had brought back more than 150,000 Germans from abroad. Tour operator TUI added that almost 95 percent of the tourists who were stranded because of the coronavirus pandemic are now back in Germany. They were mainly flown out from Egypt, Spain, Portugal and the Cape Verde Islands. German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas has said that the warning against traveling abroad will remain in effect until the end of April. "This includes the Easter holidays," he said on Twitter. "Stay at home! Protect yourself and your fellow human beings," he appealed to the population. Many tour operators have also extended their travel ban until the end of April. The EU Commission is supporting the return to Europe of tens of thousands of long-distance travellers. It intends to cover a large part of the costs, since most of the flight connections have been cancelled. "We are here to help them return," Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said in a video message. African countries have also ordered numerous measures to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. South Africa, for example, has banned access to the country for people coming from risk areas. Nigeria is monitoring the temperature of travelers at airports, ports and borders. Cameroon has closed its borders indefinitely. The Australian government has imposed an indefinite ban on all foreign travel by its citizens. Prime Minister Scott Morrison also called on all Australians who are abroad to return home. A 14-day compulsory quarantine for all people entering the country has already been in place for some time. Here, too, it has become quiet in the cities. The coronavirus crisis is impacting travelers and the tourism industry with full force. Several tour operators, including TUI, has cancelled trips, and some airlines are shutting down. Germany's federal and state governments decided that overnight stays should only be used for "necessary and explicitly not for touristic purposes". Germans are to "no longer take holiday trips at home and abroad". The EU has closed its entire external borders for 30 days as from Tuesday (March 17, 2020). "All travel between non-European countries and the European Union will be suspended for 30 days," French President Macron said in a television address on Monday (March 16,2020) evening. The Schengen Area, which includes several non-EU countries, has also closed its external borders. More and more countries are sealing their borders, and many flights are cancelled. With special flights Lufthansa and its subsidiary Eurowings want to bring up to 6,500 stranded holidaymakers from the Caribbean, the Canary Islands and on Mallorca back to Germany. In Morocco, the German government is assisting German tourists who are stranded there due to their return flights being cancelled. On Monday morning (March 16, 2020), Germany introduced entry controls at the borders with the five neighboring countries: France, Denmark, Luxembourg, Austria and Switzerland. Border crossings will be reduced to what is strictly necessary. Goods can continue to pass through, including commuters, but not travelers without good reason. The duration of the measures remains open. Whether Spiekeroog, Sylt or Rügen: Vacation on the northern German islands in the North and Baltic Sea is no longer possible as of March 16, 2020. Those who had already moved into their accommodation have been asked to return home. The health systems of the islands are not equipped to deal with large numbers of infected people. Regulations are to follow for mainland tourism. Disneyland Paris and Disney World Florida have closed until the end of the month. Disney Cruise Line have also suspended all new departure through the same period. The company said the decision was made "with great caution" to protect guests and employees. The company said the parks in Tokyo, Hong Kong and Shanghai, which had already been closed, will also remain shut. All ski areas in the Austrian provinces of Salzburg and Tyrol are ending the winter season early. Cable car operation will be discontinued as of Sunday (March 15, 2020). Hotels and accommodations will be closed from Monday. The provincial governments said that this should slow down the spread of the virus in the Alpine country. The two provinces account for most leading Austrian ski areas. Due to the spread of the coronavirus, the USA is imposing a general 30-day travel ban on people from Europe. The entry ban comes into force on Friday (March 13, 2020) at midnight (local time). It does not apply to US citizens residing in Europe who have tested negative for the pathogen. India has declared all tourist visas invalid for 1 month because of the corona virus. Only travelers who are already in the country are allowed to stay, the Indian Ministry of Health announced on Wednesday (March 11, 2020). The entry ban is to last until April 15 for the time being. Climbing Mount Everest via the north side has been forbidden by Chinese authorities. The necessary permits for expeditions to the world's highest mountain were withdrawn on Thursday (March 12, 2020). In order to reduce the spread, the border into neighboring Austria can only be crossed from Italy with a medical certificate. Slovenia has closed its border, and Albania has banned Italian air and ferry traffic. Many airlines have cancelled flights to Italy until at least 3 April. Germany, the UK, and Ireland tightened travel recommendations and called on their citizens to leave. The Costa Crociere shipping company is cancelling all cruises in the Mediterranean for the time being. The cruises will be suspended until April 3, the Italian company announced on Tuesday (March 10). The measure affects thousands of passengers. Ships still operating in the Mediterranean will only call at Italian ports to let passengers disembark. The dome and roof terrace of the Reichstag parliament building in Berlin have been closed to visitors since Tuesday (March 10, 2020) until further notice to prevent the possible spread of the coronavirus. The walkable dome and the roof terrace are visited by more than 2 million people every year, according to the Bundestag. All ski facilities in Italy have been closed since Tuesday (March 10, 2020) due to the corona crisis. Prior to this, hoteliers and cable car operators in the South Tyrol region (photo) had already agreed to close their facilities. South Tyrol is particularly popular with winter sports tourists from Germany and Eastern Europe. The closure is effective until at least April 3. The Czech Republic (picture) and Poland are carrying out checks at the border with Germany to protect against the spread of the coronavirus. Since Monday (March 9), travelers have faced random temperature checks. The German government has warned against travelling to risk areas. And air passengers from China, Japan, South Korea, Iran and Italy will have to expect controls when entering Germany. On March 8 the Italian government issued an entry and exit ban for the more than 15 million inhabitants of the northern Italian regions, which include the key business center Milan and the tourist magnet of Venice (photo). Cultural, sporting and religious events are also banned for visitors. Museums, cinemas and theaters remain closed nationwide. Repeatedly cruise ships have to be quarantined or prevented from docking. After cancellations in Thailand and Malaysia, the Costa Fortuna (photo) with 2,000 passengers, including 64 Italians, has been allowed to enter the port of Singapore. In Oakland, California, 2,000 passengers and 1,100 crew members of the Grand Princess are quarantined because 19 of them have tested positive for COVID-19. Sights in Asia are particularly affected by travel restrictions for Chinese tourists. Hotspots such as the Senso-ji temple (picture) in Tokyo and the temple complexes of Angkor Wat in Cambodia are reporting a sharp drop in visitors. On March 9, the Ministry of Tourism in Thailand reported a 44% drop for February. Tourism accounts for 11% of the gross domestic product. Author: Andreas Kirchhoff, Susan Bonney-Cox 02:27 President of the UN General Assembly Tijjani Muhammad-Bande says world leaders will not be attending their annual meeting in New York this September due to the pandemic. It will be the first time the massive diplomatic gathering is not being held in person since the UN's founding in 1945. "World leaders cannot come to New York because they cannot come simply as individuals. A president doesn't travel alone, leaders don't travel alone," said Muhammad-Bande. He added that it would be impractical to have a large delegation in New York. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres had earlier suggested scaling back the event, which would have marked the UN's 75-year anniversary celebration. Muhammad-Bande said he would be announcing in the next two weeks how the 193 heads of state and government would be giving their speeches on global issues during the assembly's event. 02:24 Mexico has reported another 2,999 confirmed cases of the virus, bringing the total number to 120,102. Some 254 people have died from COVID-19, bringing the total death toll to 14,053. Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador has said he has no plans to get tested for the virus, despite a high-ranking member of his administration falling ill. "I'm not going to do the test because I don't have symptoms,'' Lopez Obrador said. "Fortunately, I'm well and take care of myself, keep a safe distance.'' 00:18 The UK has launched a study to investigate the prevalence and spread of the coronavirus in the country's schools. The study will see how many children have the virus, and how they spread the virus. "This study will help us better understand how common asymptomatic and mild cases of COVID-19 are so that we can support parents, pupils and teachers and support-staff, and inform our ongoing response to this new virus," Health minister Matt Hancock said in a statement. In the UK, selected age groups have been allowed to return to school, but some schools have decided not to re-open. Older students will partially return from June 15. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3d6NZ 00:05 An update from North and South America New York City — which has so far endured the worst of the pandemic in the US — has begun to partially reopen. About 400,000 residents are allowed to return to work, with shops offering limited services, while construction and manufacturing resumes. Mayor Bill de Blasio hailed the first easing of restrictions, but warned people to continue to social distance and to keep washing their hands. "This is a triumphant moment for New Yorkers who fought back against this disease," he told CNN. "Come back to work, but remember to stick to those smart rules that got us this far." US President Donald Trump will resume his signature mass rallies within the next two weeks, according to his campaign. The team is reportedly working on measures to stop the mass gatherings becoming coronavirus hotspots. Polls show Trump trailing behind Democratic rival Joe Biden, with the election five months away. US stocks have surged, with the tech-dominated NASDAQ hitting a record high. The broader S&P 500 is now up for the year and within 4.5% of its all time high. Investor confidence has been buoyed by economic reopenings. In Argentina, more than 20,000 clothes and shoes shops were allowed to reopen, after restrictions that forced all but essential services to close. The new phase of lockdown means activities can be restored in 18 of the country's 24 provinces, but social distancing measures will remain in place until June 28. Schools will remain closed and mass gatherings — including shows, concerts and sporting events — are still prohibited. Exercise is permitted between 8 p.m. and 8 a.m. Honduras has begun to reopen after almost three months of lockdown, despite warnings from doctors. President Juan Orlando Hernandez said in a television address: "The economy could not stay closed any longer." A 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. curfew will be maintained. Across the country, about 500,000 jobs have reportedly been lost. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3dSBi Brazil has reported 679 new COVID-19 deaths and 15,654 additional confirmed cases. But it remains accused of covering up its actual numbers. The national Health Ministry removed data from its website over the weekend and stopped releasing cumulative totals for coronavirus deaths and infections. According to the National Council of Health Secretaries (Conass) — a separate entity that consists of the heads of Brazil's state health departments — Brazil's death toll now stands at 37,134. This puts it behind the United States and Britain. It also has 707,412 confirmed cases, the second-highest number after the US. 00:01 More than half the population of the northern city of Bergamo have COVID-19 antibodies, according to a new study. Health authorities tested a sample of 9,965 residents for a blood test between April 23 and June 3. Some 57% of them had antibodies, which indicates they came into contact with the disease. Read more: Coronavirus: Tests show half of people in Italy's Bergamo have antibodies Authorities said the test was based on a random sample and sufficiently broad to draw these conclusions, however, they later said that most of those tested were residents of the worst-hit areas and many had already been placed under quarantine. A test of 10,404 health workers — generally considered to be higher risk — found 30% of them had tested positive. Bergamo was the worst-hit city in Italy, with deaths increasing 568% over the average for March. The province reported 13,609 cases. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3c4fB 00:00 Catch up on Monday's updates here. In reporting on the coronavirus pandemic, unless otherwise specified, DW uses figures provided by the Johns Hopkins University (JHU) Coronavirus Resource Center in the United States. JHU updates figures in real-time, collating data from world health organizations, state and national governments, and other public official sources, all of whom have their own systems for compiling information. Germany's national statistics are compiled by its public health agency, the Robert Koch Institute (RKI). These figures depend on data transmission from state and local levels and are updated around once a day, which can lead to deviation from JHU. aw/nm (AFP, AP, Reuters, DPA) DW sends out a daily selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.