While all eyes are usually on Cannes' red carpet events and spectacular film premieres, in the background the Marche du film market is where the real business happens. While the film market where titles have been bought and sold since 1959 was initially cancelled this year along with the competition for the Palm D'Or, an online version of the event is currently taking place between June 22 and June 26. Read more: Even without festival, Cannes reveals its film selection As cinemas across the world comply with corona-related hygiene rules, the Marché du film is looking ahead to market the films that worldwide audiences should be watching in the coming 2020/21 season. Volker Schlöndorff garnered Germany's first Palme d'Or with the film version of the book "The Tin Drum" in 1979. Wim Wenders followed up in 1984 with "Paris, Texas," taking the audience and jury by storm. It also brought global recognition to the "New German Film" genre. Nastassja Kinski (shown here) played, alongside Harry Dean Stanton, the role of her career. Festival audiences loved the film "Blue is the Warmest Color" four years ago. French director Abdellatif Kechiche told the love story between two young women in such an intense and expressive way that the jury awarded the Palme d'Or not only to the director, but also to the two fantastic actresses, Léa Seydoux und Adèle Exarchopoulos. The 2009 Cannes jury quickly agreed that "The White Ribbon" was the most deserving film that year. Munich-born Austrian director Michael Haneke received the Palme d'Or for a film that managed to portray the stifling atmosphere of a small northern German town just before the outbreak of World War I. In 2012, Haneke received his second Golden Palm for his drama "Amour." Quentin Tarantino's "Pulp Fiction" from 1994 became a cult classic. The complex story, told playfully and ironically, took American cinema to a whole new level. The film would go on to have a significant influence on directors and screenplay writers. Just a year earlier, the Golden Palm winner had also caused a sensation – but the kind that was long overdue. Director Jane Campion of New Zealand received the top accolade for her melancholy emigration drama about a pianist who couldn't speak. Campion became the first woman to claim the prestigious award. In 1990, the Palme d'Or winner stirred up controversy. David Lynch's wild and somewhat violent road movie divided the jury – until jury president Bernardo Bertolucci of Italy got his way. The genre-bending "Wild at Heart" prepared audiences for films from the likes of Quentin Tarantino. Cannes doesn't only present American and Western European films. In 1982, "Yol" became the first Turkish movie to win the Palm d'Or. Filmmaker Şerif Gören had to fill in on the project for director and screenplay writer Yılmaz Güney, who had to flee Turkey in 1981 for political reasons. Güney died of stomach cancer in 1984. The 1979 competition proved memorable because the jury, presided over by French writer Françoise Sagan, couldn't agree on a winner – so they chose two. Along with Francis Ford Coppola's Vietnam War film "Apocalypse Now," Volker Schlöndorff also took home a trophy for "The Tin Drum," based on the book by Günter Grass. Golden Palm winners often reflect the aesthetic developments in the world of cinema. In 1970, the jury demonstrated intuition by selecting the anti-war black comedy "MASH." Six years later, Martin Scorsese's "Taxi Driver," starring Jodie Foster and Robert De Niro, won the Palme d'Or. Both represented New Hollywood, which saw directors take more control over movie-making than production studios. Spanish-Mexico director Luis Buñuel received the Palme d'Or in 1961 for "Viridiana." Just three days after he accepted the award in Cannes, the film was banned in Spain because the Franco regime wasn't pleased with the director's anticlerical, anti-capitalistic approach. Today, "Viridiana" is considered a masterpiece of surrealist cinema. Author: Jochen Kürten (kbm, als) The show goes on Around 12,500 participants have registered for the virtual show of films in Cannes, with 4,000 films and projects from over 120 countries on offer. Some are only available to preview as the Marché du film also showcases productions that are not yet complete. Hollywood has always used the market to promote its films, and US director Michael Mann is presenting a screenplay for the long-awaited feature film about Italy's automotive icon Enzo Ferrari. The German Pavilion, a permanent institution in Cannes for the German film industry to promote its films, will also happen online. Among the offering is Enfant Terrible, Oskar Roehler's film biography about director Rainer Werner Fassbinder, and one of the 56 German films that would have been shown in Cannes this year if not for the coronavirus pandemic. The Marché du film is no longer happening on the ground in Cannes Focus on future projects New projects that have just been completed or are in post-production are of particular interest at the market, according to German Films, which manages the German Pavilion. There is, for instance, Italian director Luca Lucchesi's A Black Jesus, produced by the Road Movies production company — a documentary about a traditional religious procession in a Sicilian village in which a Ghanain refugee becomes the bearer of a venerated Black Jesus statue. The film raises questions about the ongoing immigration debates in Europe. A film by German director Sarah Blasskiewitz is still in post-production and, with the working title Chocolate/Brownie, is about a 30-year-old woman with African roots who grew up in the East German city of Leipzig, wants to be a teacher and works at her ex-boyfriend's tanning salon. Schoko (chocolate) is her nickname, a name she and her friends never questioned. But that is about to change. The film couldn't be more timely, and could be among those generating interest among buyers at a virtual Cannes film market that is banking on cinemas soon returning to normal.