All updates in Universal Coordinated Time (UTC/GMT) 04:50 Australia will go ahead with easing coronavirus restrictions, Prime Minister Scott Morrison announced, despite a surge in infections in Victoria, the country's second most populous state. "There will be outbreaks and what matters is that we continue to build our capability to deal with those outbreaks," Morrison said at a media briefing. Australia recorded 37 new cases, including 30 in Victoria state. Health authorities responded by deploying ambulances and mobile test centers across the southeastern state. Authorities said they tested 20,000 people after going door-to-door in Melbourne suburbs. In Sydney, a 12-year-old student tested positive, forcing the closure of his school for cleaning. 04:25 Germany has logged 477 new COVID-19 cases over the past 24 hours, the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) for infectious diseases said, in one of the lowest rates reported this week. The death toll rose by 21 for Thursday, bringing the country's total to 8,948. Here's a look at how the virus has developed in Germany this week: Saturday: 687 new cases, unclear new fatalities data Sunday: 537 new cases, 3 new fatalities Monday: 503 new cases, 10 new fatalities Tuesday: 587 new cases, 19 new fatalities Wednesday: 630 new cases, 13 new fatalities 03:25 The US is grappling with a new surge in cases, with several states logging their own record-breaking infection rates. Unlike some countries in East Asia and Europe, the US is still in the midst of its first wave of the virus. Experts point to the wildly divergent virus responses from state to state, as well as a politicization of health measures to curb the virus — including wearing face masks and social distancing. For more on the situation in the US, check out our latest overview here: US facing 'big problem' as COVID-19 cases surge 02:35 A Europe-wide study found that children who contract COVID-19 typically have "mild" symptoms and that deaths are very rare. The study, published in The Lancet Child & Adolescent Health journal, looked at nearly 600 children under the age of 18 who were infected with the novel coronavirus. Researchers found that fewer than one in 100 children who contract the virus end up dying from it, but that a small but significant percentage ended up developing a severe case. The most common symptom among the children analyzed was fever, while 54% had a respiratory tract infection and 25% had pneumonia. Marc Tebruegge, the study's lead author from the University College London's Great Ormond Street Institute of Child Health, said although the results shouldn't be used to draw general conclusions about the impacts of the virus on children, he said the results were still reassuring. "Overall, the vast majority of children and young people experience only mild disease," he said. Although the symptoms tended to be mild, researchers found that COVID-19 positive children who were infected with other respiratory illnesses at the same time were over three times more likely to require treatment in intensive care units rather than children who just had COVID-19. The finding could have serious implications for Europe's upcoming cold and flu season in the winter, said Begona Santiago-Garcia from Spain's University Hospital Gregorio. 01:50 Mexico passed a grim milestone on Thursday, as the country's total cases rose to over 200,000 and its pandemic death toll surpassed 25,000. The Health Ministry reported over 6,100 cases and 736 deaths on Thursday, although the government has admitted that the actual number of infections is likely much higher due to low testing rates. Only the United States and Brazil have higher death tolls in the Americas. Mexico's Finance Minister Arturo Herrera also announced on Thursday that he tested positive for the virus, becoming the highest-ranking Cabinet member to be infected. It was unclear when he last met with President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, who is due to meet with US President Donald Trump next month. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3dBz6 01:12 The number of new coronavirus cases in the United States is nearing an all-time high, with southern and western states hit particularly hard. Daily death tolls, hospitalizations, and the percentage of positive tests have been rising in several areas of the country, in what experts say are indications that the virus is making a comeback. In Arizona, a record 415 people are currently on ventilators while 24% of the coronavirus tests carried out over the past seven days have been positive, nearly triple the country's average. In Texas, one of the states that was one of the first to lift stay-at-home restrictions, reopening plans have been put on hold. For a second day in a row, Florida reported over 5,000 new COVID-19 cases. On Wednesday, the US reported over 34,500 COVID-19 cases, coming close to the all-time high of 36,400 that was reached in late April. 00:15 Brazil's President Jair Bolsonaro said he may have previously contracted the coronavirus, despite having tested negative multiple times. Bolsonaro said two of his previous tests in recent weeks had come back negative, although he fought a court battle to halt the release of his hospital test results, prompting questions about whether he'd been infected with the virus. The Brazilian leader has come under fire for his response to the pandemic, with new cases continuing to sharply rise. The South American country currently has the second-highest number of cases in the world, with officials recording over 39,400 new COVID-19 cases and over 1,100 new deaths over the past 24 hours. 00:00 Catch up on Thursday's coronavirus news here. In reporting on the coronavirus pandemic, unless otherwise specified, DW uses figures provided by the Johns Hopkins University (JHU) Coronavirus Resource Center in the United States. JHU updates figures in real-time, collating data from world health organizations, state and national governments, and other public official sources, all of whom have their own systems for compiling information. Germany's national statistics are compiled by its public health agency, the Robert Koch Institute (RKI). These figures depend on data transmission from state and local levels and are updated around once a day, which can lead to deviation from JHU. rs,see/rc (AP, AFP, Reuters, dpa)