"The Government of the Republic of Burundi announces with great sadness the unexpected death of His Excellency Pierre Nkurunziza, President of the Republic of Burundi... following cardiac arrest on June 8, 2020," the government said in a tweet on Tuesday. Burundi's government declared a week of mourning following his death. Change of presidents was already pending Nkurunziza's death comes just weeks before he was due to officially step down following Evariste Ndayishimiye's electoral victory last month. A former army general, Ndayishimiye became the president-elect after winning the candidacy for Nkurunziza's ruling party, the Hutu nationalist CNDD-FDD. However, the legitimacy of those elections has been disputed by the United Nations, saying the country failed to meet conditions for free and credible polls. Indeed, Nkurunziza's 15 years in office had been marred throughout by allegations of human rights abuses and muzzling of the press, as well as the stifling of critics and opposition. His death, however, plays into his successor's hands, according to Thierry Vircoulon, a Burundi expert at the International Crisis Group. "There was naturally a question after the election of what roll Pierre Nkurunziza would play — if he would be an obstacle for the new president or, on the other hand, if the men would reach an understanding," Vircoulon told DW. "That's a question and post-election scenario that is no longer needs to be asked. The new president of the old regime will have a completely free hand." Read more:  Burundi: Tough presidency awaits Evariste Ndayishimiye Civil war rebel From 1993 Burundi endured a 12-year civil war that killed some 300,000 people and was driven by similar ethnic tensions to those witnessed in the 1994 genocide in neighboring Rwanda. During that civil war, Nkurunziza fought in the rebel Hutu group that went on to become the African country's ruling party, the CNDD-FDD. He initially held the position of a minister in a transitional government in 2003 but when the conflict came to an end, Nkurunziza earned a number of CNDD-FDD victories in votes held through June and July of 2005, ultimately leading to him being appointed president that August. He was reelected in 2010 with more than 91% of the vote, albeit with the opposition boycotting that election. He won a controversial third term in 2015 that left Burundi in turmoil as supporters and opponents of Nkurunziza disputed whether it was constitutional for him to seek a third term. Hundreds died and hundreds of thousands fled the ensuing violence. In 2018, he said he would not seek a fourth term in May's election. Facing allegations of widespread abuses, his government steadfastly rejected scrutiny, becoming the first nation to withdraw from the International Criminal Court in 2017. The government said it made the move as it sought greater sovereignty from what it believed an institution biased towards the West. Read more:  Opinion: Burundi should be persuaded to cooperate with ICC investigators 'Remember all the victims of the regime' That decision was met with derision, however, from activists who mourned a significant blow to international justice. The activists were aware of the court's decision to investigate violence in Burundi and cited this as the principal reason for the government's decision to withdraw. The International Criminal Court in The Hague in 2017 had started an investigation into alleged crimes against humanity committed in Burundi or by nationals of Burundi outside the country. For human rights activist Pierre Claver Mbonimpa, who survived an attack carried out on behalf of the Nkurunziza regime, the president's death puts a question mark on the investigation. "When a person dies criminal charges are no longer investigated," Mbonimpa told DW. "That is what hurts me. We were waiting for justice but that is going to be difficult now." He added that investigations into other members of Nkurunziza's regime would continue. "I remember all the victims of the regime, not only the victims of Pierre Nkurunziza but the entire regime," he said. "Everyone who committed crimes needs to be criminally investigated. That cannot be allowed to end just because Nkurunziza has died." A survivor of one of the Nkurunziza regime's attacks said investigations into crimes against humanity should continue Hutu and born-again Christian Nkurunziza was born in 1964 to a wealthy family and hailed from Burundi's majority Hutu ethnic group. He was still at school when his father was killed as a result of an ethnic massacre in 1972 that decimated the Hutu elite. After high school, he had ambitions of becoming an army officer or an economist, but this was impossible due to the restrictions imposed on the Hutu majority by the then ethnic Tutsi government. As a result, Nkurunziza became a sports teacher. He joined the Hutu rebellion in 1995 as Burundi found itself deep in the midst of a civil war and Nkurunziza took solace in religion after he was badly wounded in the leg during the conflict. During that time he began having visions of himself as a future president while hiding out in remote swamps. "Nkurunziza indeed believes he is president by divine will... and he, therefore, organizes his life and government around these values," presidential spokesman Willy Nyamitwe once claimed. Nkurunziza spent at least half of every week traveling with his football team Alleluia FC and his choir "Komeza gusenga" which means "pray non-stop" in the local language of Kirundi. On May 17, 2018, Burundians overwhelmingly voted for constitutional changes that could potentially see President Pierre Nkurunziza stay in office until 2034. The opposition claimed the vote was marred by intimidation and fraud. In 2015, protests erupted as Nkurunziza announced that he would run for a controversial third term. According to UN reports, at least 1,200 people died during the unrest. In April 2015, President Nkurunziza only had a few months left in office. Burundian law stipulates that a president should only serve for two terms, meaning that Nkurunziza would have had to step down. The president, however, announced that he would stand for another election. In response, the streets of Bujumbura erupted in protest. In May 2015, the demonstrations had developed into a full-blown political crisis. A military coup attempt was quickly quashed. At the same time police and security forces cracked down on protesters and in return, government opponents attacked security officials. Reports of brutality and torture in police custody emerged. On July 21, 2015 Burundians went to the polls. A few days later, Pierre Nkurunziza was declared the winner. The results were to be expected, as the opposition had boycotted the vote. Opposition leader, Agathon Rwasa at first refused to accept the results. To the disappointment of other government critics, he called for a unity government a short while later. In the following months, death threats and assassination attempts against opposition members, critics, but also government officials occured recurrently. Nkurunziza’s security chief, Adolphe Nshimirimana and human rights activist Pierre-Claver Mbonimpa (pictured above) are amongst the most prominent cases. Mbonimpa survived after being shot at least four times but lost his son and son-in-law. On December 11, 2015, government opponents attacked four military bases in Bujumbura. A day later, army troops descended on oppositional strongholds in the capital. Residents reported dozens of deaths. Altogether over 100 people are said to have died during the clashes. As a response the African Union offered to send peacekeeping troops to the country, but Nkurunziza refused any intervention. We can’t ignore such a crisis of such dimension, Adama Dieng, the UN’s special advisor for the prevention of genocide declared in late 2015. Humanitarian crisis was at its peak at the time. To date, nearly 400,000 Burundian refugees still live outside the country. In January 2016, the African Union attempted to mediate in talks between the government and the opposition. Yet the conference in Arusha in neighboring Tanzania was repeatedly postponed. When the talks began in May, a major opposition coalition, CNARED, was excluded and the talks were regarded as a sham from the start. As time passed life returned to normal in the streets of Bujumbura, yet under the surface, political grievances remained the same. In September 2016, UN investigators reported evidence of grave human rights violations including torture and killings through state actors. The investigators also warned about the rising ethnic tension. In the meantime, Nkurunziza‘s government planned constitutional reforms. In August 2016, a government commission proposed changes to the constitution that would scrap presidential term limits. Nkurunziza himself hinted that he was considering a fourth term in office in 2020. At the start of 2017, the political situation remained tense. Militia belonging to the Imbonerakure youth wing continued to spread fear amongst the people. Despite international pressure and sanctions from the European Union, Nkurunziza’s stance remained unchanged. In November 2017, the International Criminal Court (ICC) in The Hague opened an investigation into alleged crimes against humanity in Burundi. The prosecution accused the government of launching a widespread and systematic attack against civilians. A month earlier, Burundi was the first country in Africa to withdraw from the ICC and the Rome Statute. On May 11, 2018 unknown gunmen attacked residents in the province of Cibitoke. At least 26 people died. The government accused 'terrorists' from the neighboring Democratic Republic of Congo for the attack. The deadly incident occurred just days ahead of the constitutional referendum on May 17 that could potentially allow Nkurunziza to stay in office until 2034. Author: Jan Philipp Wilhelm jsi/msh (AFP, AP, Reuters) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.