All times in Coordinated Universal Time (UTC/GMT) 11:54 Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin has announced the end of a strict anti-coronavirus lockdown in place for weeks in the Russian capital. From Tuesday, the city's "self-isolation and pass system will be cancelled," he said in a video message on Facebook, adding that "Moscow is returning to the usual rhythm of life." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3dB02 11:30 The coronavirus crisis has taken a heavy toll on German industry, with a key economic survey predicting a continued but less serious decline in the coming months. Production plunged by 17.9 per cent in April compared to the previous month, according to data released by the Federal Statistical Office (Destatis) on Monday. Read more: German industrial output plunges in record slump The decline was worse than predicted. Economists had forecast a 16.5% drop. Compared to the same period last year, production was down by 25.3%, Destatis said. 11:00 Children in South Africa have started to return to the classroom as part of a gradual loosening of COVID-19 lockdown restrictions. The reopening of schools was delayed after teaching unions last week demanded that school staff defy the government order to open last week. They said that schools lacked sufficient health and hygiene measures to keep educators and pupils safe. Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga said ramped-up efforts to equip schools over the past week meant that 95% of schools were now ready to host classes, with the country’s biggest teachers union dropping its resistance. "The golden rule is there will be no school that will resume if not ready to do so," Motshekga said. 10:20 The Dutch trial over the 2014 downing of Malaysia Airlines flight MH 17 has resumed, following months of delay due to the coronavirus pandemic. Defense lawyers said Monday that they needed more time to prepare their case, and a Dutch lawyer representing a Russian suspect said that flight bans and other travel restrictions linked to the pandemic made it impossible to interview her client. "It is absolutely impossible to discuss such a large and complex criminal file on the phone via an interpreter," she said. Three Russians and a Ukrainian are charged with being involved in shooting down the Boeing 777 that was flying from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur. The trial is taking place in the Netherlands because nearly 200 of the victims were Dutch citizens. 09:15 Poland will close 12 coal mines starting Tuesday for three weeks to stop the spread of COVID-19 among miners, Deputy Prime Minister Jacek Sasin has announced. The closures come after nearly 800 new COVID-19 cases were linked to the Zofiowka coal mine, owned by the state-run JSW mining group. Two JSW-operated mines and 10 mines run by the PGG group will suspend operations. Sasin added that miners would receive 100% pay for the three weeks and that there was no threat to coal deliveries. COVID-19 has spread rapidly among coal miners, who account for 20% of total cases in Poland, according to state-run PAP news agency. The coal-producing region in the south of the country has recorded the highest percentage of Poland's 26,780 infections. 08:10 The coronavirus pandemic has revealed cracks in China-Africa relations. Gone are the days of big Chinese loans and major borrowing. Beijing's relationship with its African partners is changing, experts say. Coal miners entering the Ziemowit coal mine in southern Poland are screened for COVID-19 07:44  Shopping centers, restaurants and places of worship have reopened in several Indian cities, despite the number of COVID-19 cases continuing to rise across the country. In new figures announced Monday by India's health ministry, the total number of COVID-19 cases is at 256,611, following a record one-day spike of nearly 10,000 infections. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government is under pressure to open up businesses and get people back to work following a ten-week lockdown that has hit the economy hard and left millions of laborers jobless. The easing of restrictions comes with a set of social distancing and hygiene requirements, including masks, disinfection stations and temperature checks. 07:00 The United Kingdom has started a new quarantine measure, under which most people arriving in the country will have to self-isolate for two weeks. The self-isolation order applies to both residents and visitors, and authorities said it is aimed at preventing a second wave of COVID-19 infections arriving from abroad. Corporate leaders in UK's travel and tourism industry criticized the move, and questioned why the UK, which has Europe's highest number of COVID-19 cases at 287.621, would reduce travel from countries in Europe with fewer cases. British Airways and budget carriers EasyJet and Ryanair have launched joint legal proceedings against the measure, calling it "disproportionate" and devastating for the country's ailing tourism industry. Ryanair's CEO Michael O'Leary said Monday that the budget airline would not cancel July and August flights if the quarantine remains in place. He added many flights from the UK to vacation destinations in Portugal, Spain, Italy, Greece are full. "British people are ignoring this quarantine, they know it's rubbish," he said. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3dOZV 05:58 Indonesia's capital city, Jakarta, has partially reopened following a two-month lockdown. Authorities in the city of 11 million will allow offices, restaurants and grocery stores to reopen with a 50% reduction in employees and customers. Public transportation has also resumed. Mosques in the world's largest Muslim-majority country were reopened Friday at half capacity with social distancing measures in place. Schools remain closed. Indonesia has totaled over 30,000 COVID-19 cases, including 1,851 deaths. Jakarta accounts for 8,000 cases and 529 deaths. 05:40  Pakistan has surpassed 100,000 COVID-19 cases, as the number of infections in the South Asian country continues to rise following the Islamic holy month of Ramadan and the Eid holiday at the end of May. Government officials have been criticized for refusing to close mosques and for not initiating stricter lockdown measures. Read more: Pakistan risking disaster with its contentious coronavirus strategy Over the past 24 hours, over 4,700 new cases have been reported, according the Pakistan Ministry of Health. Daily infection rates have been hovering around 5,000 since the end of Ramadan. The COVID-19 death toll in Pakistan current stands at 2,067. 05:35 Denmark has lifted the limit on public gatherings to 50 people from 10 as it relaxes measures to curb the spread of the coronavirus. The restrictions on public gatherings were put in place on March 17. 03:30: Germany's Robert Koch Institute (RKI), the country's public health authority for infectious diseases, has reported 301 new cases of the coronavirus, taking the country's total tally to 183,979. Germany reported 22 additional deaths, putting the death toll in the country at 8,668. RKI said cases per 100,000 (cumulative incidences) were highest in Bavaria (362 per 100,000) followed by Baden Württemberg (315), Hamburg (278) and Saarland (277). 03:00 Cuban President Miguel Diaz-Canel said the coronavirus pandemic was "under control" in the country, after reporting eight consecutive days without a death from the virus. Cuba currently has 244 active cases of the coronavirus. The country plans to start lifting its lockdown next week. Currently, Cuba has closed its borders, suspended public transport, closed schools and colleges and made wearing a mask compulsory. "We need to keep focusing on how we're going to eliminate the residues that remain, especially those associated with the incompetence or poor functioning of any institution, which give rise to events that can provoke a rebound," said Diaz-Canel. 02:50: New Zealand announced on Monday that the final person to contract the coronavirus in the country has recovered. The country has not reported a new case in the last 17 days. "Having no active cases for the first time since February 28 is certainly a significant mark in our journey but as we've previously said, ongoing vigilance against COVID-19 will continue to be essential," said Ashley Bloomingfield, the director-general of health. Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said on Monday that the country would lift all coronavirus measures on Tuesday, with the exception of border closure restrictions. The move will allow public and private events to go on without restriction, public transport to resume and the retail and hospitality sectors to operate normally. 00:58 The United States reported 691 new deaths from the coronavirus on Saturday, the lowest in a week. The country now has 110,482 deaths from the virus and over 1.93 million cases, the highest in the world. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3byb6 00:38 Brazil's Health Ministry again released cumulative COVID-19 figures on Sunday, after officials took down a website Friday with daily, weekly and monthly COVID-19 cases and deaths. On Saturday, officials did not report the total number of cases, and only reported the number of cases and deaths over a 24-hour period. This new method of registering deaths and infections was criticized by the political class, judiciary and the press as a move to manipulate statistics after the country's death toll overtook Italy for the third-highest in the world. Brazil's President Jair Bolsonaro has been criticized for downplaying and covering up the extent of the outbreak in the country. As of Sunday, the health ministry reported a total of 37,312 people in the country have died from COVID-19 to date, while the total number of infections stands at 685,427. Read more: Americas are the new coronavirus 'epicenter' – WHO 00:09: Argentina said it had recorded 774 new cases of the coronavirus and 16 deaths on Saturday. The country now has 22,794 positive cases. The latest numbers come a day before Argentina begins removing a lockdown in most parts of the country, except the area of capital Buenos Aires, which will remain in lockdown for another three weeks. 00:00: Poland reported 1,151 new cases of the coronavirus over the weekend, after a breakout in a coal mine. The country's Health Ministry said two-thirds of the new cases were linked to the Zofiowka coal mine, owned by the JSW mining group. JSW also said it had seen a rise in infections at another coal mine in Pniowek. Poland now has 26,561 cases of the coronavirus. Catch up with Sunday's developments here: Global deaths surpass 400,000 In reporting on the coronavirus pandemic, unless otherwise specified, DW uses figures provided by the Johns Hopkins University (JHU) Coronavirus Resource Center in the United States. JHU updates figures in real-time, collating data from world health organizations, state and national governments, and other public official sources, all of whom have their own systems for compiling information. Germany's national statistics are compiled by its public health agency, the Robert Koch Institute (RKI). These figures depend on data transmission from state and local levels and are updated around once a day, which can lead to deviation from JHU. DW sends out a daily selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.