An outstretched leg to guide the ball slowly into the back of the net was a fitting way for Mario Gomez to score the last goal of his professional career. The 34-year-old striker couldn't help Stuttgart to a final day win but he had helped them to return to the Bundesliga in his final season, his parting wish for the club that made him. The end of Gomez's career is the end of an era for the out-and-out German center forward. Other than Miroslav Klose, the modern era of German football has not been littered with prolific striking talent. Gomez, the son of a Spanish father and a German mother, was a tall, strong forward who was there just to score. The game is faster now and more is expected from players in each position, but there will always be something magical about players who just scored goals. Mario Gomez was one of those. Read more: Opinion: Stuttgart's individual quality will keep them up Mario Gomez was part of Bayern Munich's treble-winning team in 2013. Penalty-box poacher Gomez's career took off when he scored 14 goals to unexpectedly help Stuttgart to the 2007 Bundesliga title. Two more seasons of big goal tallies (19 and 24 respectively) and a move to Bayern Munich was inevitable. In his four seasons in Bavaria, he never failed to score double-figures in the league. When Borussia Dortmund won the title in 2011, Gomez scored 28 goals for Bayern. The following year, Dortmund won again. Gomez delivered again, scoring 26. His role in the treble winning year was less prominent, as he became more of a penalty-box striker, but in his final game for Bayern, the German Cup final no less, Gomez fittingly scored a brace against Stuttgart to secure the third trophy. When he signed for Fiorentina, thousands filled the stands. A serious injury denied him success in Italy and a spot at the 2014 World Cup. Between 2008 and 2018, the tournament in Brazil was the only one Gomez wasn't in the Germany squad. For the striker who finished his international career with 78 caps and 31 goals, it was a cruel twist of fate that that was the only tournament Germany won. Throughout his career, Gomez had shown that, whatever the style of play, there is always value in having someone in the squad capable of putting the ball in the back of the net. Throughout his Germany career he had been as reliable as his goals. Not being involved in the glory in 2014 almost seemed unfair for a player who had given so much to Germany teams that weren't quite perfect when they needed to be. Mario Gomez (right) flubbed a goal scoring opportunity at the 2008 Euros. Proving doubters wrong Beyond his service, though, lay an uncomfortable truth. Gomez was never really feared as a striker. Despite scoring 170 goals in the Bundesliga, winning the golden boot in Germany and Turkey and scoring 23 goals in 39 Champions League games for Bayern, Gomez spent most of his career trying to prove people wrong. Against Austria at the 2008 Euros, Gomez failed to tap the ball in from three yards out with the goal at his mercy. The bounce was unkind but it was nevertheless a haunting miss. To miss the kind of chance he was there to take, the kind he would spend his career scoring, on such a big stage was damaging. "It has actually taken my whole career to show people it was a one-off mistake," Gomez said in 2017. "I had to ask does one miss change everything? I tried so hard to win these people back but the more I tried, the more tense I became." Perhaps that would explain why, on a handful of occasions over his career, Gomez missed a sitter or stumbled over the ball. He needn't have worried, though. While many booed or dismissed him as nothing more than a backup option, Gomez always had his goals. He didn't terrorize defenses or strike fear in the heart of the opposition, because he didn't need to. He scored goals and that was enough. Read more: Bundesliga 2019-20: A strange season with the usual winners Mario Gomez' patented goal celebration was a regular sight during his one season with Besiktas A great modern goalscorer Right when it looked like Mario Gomez would fade into the history books as a talented former Bundesliga striker who won a few trophies with Bayern, the three-time Bundesliga winner moved to Besiktas. In a season he considers one of the best of his career, Gomez's memorable goal celebration, a tribute to the curtesy from the bullfighting arena, was a regular sight. Gomez and Istanbul were the perfect match. Gomez stayed fit, scored 26 goals to win the golden boot and help Besiktas to the Super Lig title. By the time the 2018 World Cup came around, Gomez was back in the squad. After one impressive year at Wolfsburg, Gomez found it harder to be the center forward he had always been. He returned to Stuttgart and, after relegation from the Bundesliga, stuck around to help them secure promotion. He might have only scored seven goals in 23 games in his final season as a pro but without them Stuttgart, a club that won automatic promotion by three points, would have been five points worse off. He might not be remembered as one of the great strikers, but Mario Gomez was one of the great goalscorers in modern football. And after years of curtsying for the crowd, it's time for us to return the favor as the curtain goes down on Gomez's career. November 2, 2019 — It was a historic moment for the city of Berlin as Hertha and Union clashed in their first ever top-flight derby. Sebastian Polter clinched a tight 1-0 victory for the hosts, but the match was marred by ugly scenes in the stands. Hertha ultras launched fireworks onto the pitch and Union ultras attempted to storm the field. November 3, 2019 — Bayern Munich looked in trouble following a 5-1 loss to Eintracht Frankfurt on Matchday 10. Off the title pace by four points, the club decided to part ways with under-fire coach Niko Kovac. It proved to be the right choice, as replacement Hansi Flick went unbeaten for 20 matches to seal an eighth straight Bundesliga title. January 18, 2020 — The biggest transfer of the Bundesliga proved to be Borussia Dortmund's capture of Erling Haaland. The 19-year-old Norwegian made an immediate impact off the bench as he netted a game-winning hat trick to hand Dortmund a 5-3 comeback victory over Augsburg. Haaland went on to score 13 goals in just 15 games. February 11, 2020 — When Hertha Berlin appointed Jürgen Klinsmann as coach, not many saw the partnership ending well. Three wins in just ten games signaled his time in charge would be short, but no one predicted the chaotic nature of his departure. Klinsmannn announced he was leaving the club via Facebook, blindsiding his bosses and making a mockery of the club in the eyes of media and rival fans. February 29, 2020 — These protests were about much more than just billionaire Hoffenheim owner Dietmar Hopp, who has cut a controversial figure in his bid to circumvent the Bundesliga's 50+1 ownership rule. Several clubs voiced their opposition to the DFB, due to what they saw as a breach of trust in their relationship with fan groups. Bayern Munich's game at Hoffenheim ended in farce. March 13, 2020 — As COVID-19 spread across Europe and Germany, unprecedented lockdown measures were brought into society and the Bundesliga. Before the competition was suspended, however, Borussia Mönchengladbach and Cologne played the first Bundesliga game in front of no fans on March 11. It was the last game until football returned on May 16. May 16, 2020 — There were mixed feelings among fans as the Bundesliga came back, but the DFL was adamant that the financial future of several clubs depended on a return. Games behind closed doors, known as 'Geisterspiele' in Germany, was the only way forward and overall it has proved a successful experiment. What's the plan for the new season though? How long can football continue without fans? May 26, 2020 — Heading into Matchday 28, there were just four points between Bayern Munich and Borussia Dortmund. Der Klassiker was therefore a final chance for Dortmund to mount a serious challenge on Bayern's title monopoly. But a Joshua Kimmich wondergoal and a controversial penalty call steered Bayern to a 1-0 win and all but ended any title race. June 13, 2020 — Paderborn's Klaus Gjasula not only suffered relegation with his club Paderborn, but the 30-year-old also copped a Bundesliga record not many would be proud to hold. Gjasula, playing in midfield, collected his 17th yellow card on Matchday 31 - the most any Bundesliga player has received in one single season. June 16, 2020 — Bayern were pushed further than they have been in the past eight years, but still they did enough to seal yet another Bundesliga title. With two games to spare, they beat Werder Bremen 1-0 on Matchday 32 through a goal from who else but Robert Lewandowski. They finished the season with 13 straight victories, an incredible achievement. June 30, 2020 — At 17 years and 34 days, Florian Wirtz became the league's youngest ever goalscorer when he netted for Bayer Leverkusen against Bayern Munich on Matchday 30. He took the title from previous record holder Nuri Sahin, who scored for Dortmund at the age of 17 years and 82 days in 2005. With Kai Havertz's future up the air, could Wirtz become Leverkusen's next superstar? Author: Janek Speight, Matt Pearson