In the southwestern German state of Baden-Württemberg, on the banks of the River Brenz near the border with Bavaria, is a small town where people speak with a unique accent. Heidenheim, population 50,000, is known for its manufacturing industry – machinery, packaging, bandaging, electronics, if you're in those lines of work. If not, one might have visited Schloss Hellenstein, the late-medieval castle which towers over the town. Read more: Stuttgart and Hamburg: Bundesliga fallen giants' rocky road towards revival But Heidenheim is also the setting for one of the most curious stories in German football, a story which has developed slowly, steadily but relentlessly over the past 26 years and which has taken 1. FC Heidenheim from the amateur leagues to the brink of the Bundesliga. "It's simply surreal," said chief executive Holger Sanwald after Heidenheim booked their place in this season's Bundesliga promotion/relegation playoff, capitalizing on Hamburg's latest implosion despite their own 0-3 defeat to Arminia Bielefeld. "Sometimes, we have to run our eyes. But we know how to keep our development in perspective, and we're happy about that." Heidenheim's Chief Executive Holger Sanwald has been key to the club's ascension Sanwald knows exactly where Heidenheim have come from because he's been there every step of the way. The 52-year-old once played for the club but took over as chief executive at the age of just 27, gradually leading the club up through the leagues with patience, hard work and a broad network of medium-sized partners from the region. "There's no room for one-man-shows here. We've worked our way up to our current situation over the years," said Sanwald. "There were always ups and downs but we always believed that we could continue." Climbing up the leagues In 10 years between 2004 and 2014, Heidenheim progressed from the fifth-tier Oberliga to the second division, where they have since plateaued — although there have been special highlights in the cup. In 2016, they were beaten 2-3 by Hertha Berlin in the quarterfinal. In 2018, they lost to Eintracht Frankurt. Last season, they pushed Bayern Munich all the way in a 5-4 thriller at the Allianz Arena. "We're not a little village club,” insisted Sanwald in a recent interview with the Stuttgarter Nachrichten. "We have a budget of €35 million, which puts us in the top half of the division. We don't need to make ourselves any smaller than we are." Frank Schmidt has been Heidenheim's head coach since 2007 Directly responsible for Heidenheim's sporting ascent up the leagues is Frank Schmidt, who has overseen an incredible 467 games in his 13 years in charge, making him the longest-serving head coach in professional German football. The 46-year-old was only supposed to take over a couple of games back in division five, but he's still there. "There is coach better suited to our FCH than Frank Schmidt,” says Sanwald. Marc Schnatterer, Schmidt's right-hand man Having played almost as many games as Schmidt has coached is captain Marc Schnatterer, the veteran right-winger who joined the club in the Regionalliga in 2008 and has since scored 122 goals in 426 games — including one against playoff opponents Werder Bremen in a cup match. For Schnatterer, now 34, promotion to the Bundesliga would be the perfect ending for one of Germany football's most loyal professionals. When he finally hangs up his boots, he's likely to take on another role within the club. That's how it works in Heidenheim. Heidenheim captain Marc Schnatterer has played more than 400 games for the club But first, there's an extraordinary season to finish, the most successful in the club's history despite the unprecedented circumstances. Heidenheim's big chance On the pitch, Heidenheim beat Hamburg twice and recorded the second best defense in the league as they finished third. Off it, the club put money from the sale of Robert Glatzel (€6 million to Cardiff City) towards the purchase of the Voith-Arena from the city council. The small, multipurpose stadium holds just 15,000, the minimum capacity for a Bundesliga ground, and is sponsored by Voith, the local mechanics manufacturer whose engineers set up predecessor club VfB Heidenheim in 1910. And it won't be Bremen's first visit there. In 2011, Heidenheim beat them 2-1 in the first round of the cup, although the northerners got their revenge in this season's competition, winning 4-1. But neither side has ever played in the promotion/relegation playoff. Since the re-introduction of the format in 2009, only three second division sides have prevailed: Nuremberg, Fortuna Düsseldorf and Union Berlin. Perhaps Heidenheim can make it four. It would just be another quiet step on their slow, steady journey. November 2, 2019 — It was a historic moment for the city of Berlin as Hertha and Union clashed in their first ever top-flight derby. Sebastian Polter clinched a tight 1-0 victory for the hosts, but the match was marred by ugly scenes in the stands. Hertha ultras launched fireworks onto the pitch and Union ultras attempted to storm the field. November 3, 2019 — Bayern Munich looked in trouble following a 5-1 loss to Eintracht Frankfurt on Matchday 10. Off the title pace by four points, the club decided to part ways with under-fire coach Niko Kovac. It proved to be the right choice, as replacement Hansi Flick went unbeaten for 20 matches to seal an eighth straight Bundesliga title. January 18, 2020 — The biggest transfer of the Bundesliga proved to be Borussia Dortmund's capture of Erling Haaland. The 19-year-old Norwegian made an immediate impact off the bench as he netted a game-winning hat trick to hand Dortmund a 5-3 comeback victory over Augsburg. Haaland went on to score 13 goals in just 15 games. February 11, 2020 — When Hertha Berlin appointed Jürgen Klinsmann as coach, not many saw the partnership ending well. Three wins in just ten games signaled his time in charge would be short, but no one predicted the chaotic nature of his departure. Klinsmannn announced he was leaving the club via Facebook, blindsiding his bosses and making a mockery of the club in the eyes of media and rival fans. February 29, 2020 — These protests were about much more than just billionaire Hoffenheim owner Dietmar Hopp, who has cut a controversial figure in his bid to circumvent the Bundesliga's 50+1 ownership rule. Several clubs voiced their opposition to the DFB, due to what they saw as a breach of trust in their relationship with fan groups. Bayern Munich's game at Hoffenheim ended in farce. March 13, 2020 — As COVID-19 spread across Europe and Germany, unprecedented lockdown measures were brought into society and the Bundesliga. Before the competition was suspended, however, Borussia Mönchengladbach and Cologne played the first Bundesliga game in front of no fans on March 11. It was the last game until football returned on May 16. May 16, 2020 — There were mixed feelings among fans as the Bundesliga came back, but the DFL was adamant that the financial future of several clubs depended on a return. Games behind closed doors, known as 'Geisterspiele' in Germany, was the only way forward and overall it has proved a successful experiment. What's the plan for the new season though? How long can football continue without fans? May 26, 2020 — Heading into Matchday 28, there were just four points between Bayern Munich and Borussia Dortmund. Der Klassiker was therefore a final chance for Dortmund to mount a serious challenge on Bayern's title monopoly. But a Joshua Kimmich wondergoal and a controversial penalty call steered Bayern to a 1-0 win and all but ended any title race. June 13, 2020 — Paderborn's Klaus Gjasula not only suffered relegation with his club Paderborn, but the 30-year-old also copped a Bundesliga record not many would be proud to hold. Gjasula, playing in midfield, collected his 17th yellow card on Matchday 31 - the most any Bundesliga player has received in one single season. June 16, 2020 — Bayern were pushed further than they have been in the past eight years, but still they did enough to seal yet another Bundesliga title. With two games to spare, they beat Werder Bremen 1-0 on Matchday 32 through a goal from who else but Robert Lewandowski. They finished the season with 13 straight victories, an incredible achievement. June 30, 2020 — At 17 years and 34 days, Florian Wirtz became the league's youngest ever goalscorer when he netted for Bayer Leverkusen against Bayern Munich on Matchday 30. He took the title from previous record holder Nuri Sahin, who scored for Dortmund at the age of 17 years and 82 days in 2005. With Kai Havertz's future up the air, could Wirtz become Leverkusen's next superstar? Author: Janek Speight, Matt Pearson