DW: Reteti Elephant Sanctuary was officially opened in 2016 in northern Kenya. What exactly do you do? Moses Lenaipa: The Reteti Elephant Sanctuary rescues abandoned and orphaned elephants, rehabilitates them back to health and then releases them back to the wild. In the cases of abandoned elephant calves, we look to reunite them with their mothers within 48 hours. If that fails, that is when we find a home for the calves at the sanctuary. Reteti Elephant Sanctuary Manager Moses Lenaipa What makes your initiative so special? Reteti, located in the Namunyak Community Conservancy (one of the 39 community conservancies that make up Northern Rangelands Trust), is the first community-owned elephant sanctuary in eastern Africa. Also, the sanctuary plays a critical role in not only saving critical species but also in breaking down stereotypes, and redefining wildlife management. It does this by providing employment opportunities to women and pastoralists, whose intimate knowledge of nature is deemed an asset, despite their little-to-no formal schooling. For generations, this meant they could only dream of a confined life with no options other than pastoralism. We are also  changing the way communities view wildlife, by enabling them to directly benefit from healthy elephant populations, and in so doing making elephant conservation a community-owned initiative. And  we showcase how a community in the remote regions of Kenya can pioneer a new model of elephant conservation through the rescue, rehabilitation and re-wilding of orphaned and abandoned elephants. Feeding time at Reteti Elephant Sanctuary in Kenya Your work brings together communities to look after animals. Has this been a long struggle or did they quickly understand what you wanted to do? The idea behind the sanctuary came from community conversations, which did provide a good headstart. We then conducted meetings with members of the Samburu community to raise awareness of how healthy elephants could improve people‘s livelihoods through employment, education and improved security opportunities, and even improved grasslands. We are just four years in, there has been great support from the community who now realize there is no reason for orphaned elephants to be taken to another area and rehabilitated there, because keeping them in their community provides them with livelihood benefits, mostly through tourism revenue. An elephant keeper at Reteti Elephant Sanctuary in Kenya How do you convince people to work with you? The community is convinced by the benefits for their livelihood, including the over 30 staff that care for the elephants around the clock. For most of the community members, this is their first job – they are our partners by being part of a multi-pronged cause that conserves wildlife while remarkably improving the lives of the communities that live side-by-side with said wildlife. How has the coronavirus pandemic impacted your work? Travel restrictions due to COVID-19 have meant a total collapse of the tourism industry, which is a big source of revenue to our sanctuary and the community programs we do. We have not had job losses yet at the sanctuary but have had to revive our online crowdfunding platforms to continue keeping afloat during these tough economic times. Tourists look on during feeding time at Reteti Elephant Sanctuary in Kenya How has COVID-19 impacted the local communities in general? The Samburu are pastoralists and so they largely rely on the income they get from their livestock. However, due to COVID-19, local markets have been closed, preventing the community from converting their livestock into cash to buy essential household items and supplies. This, in addition to the loss of tourism income in the ecosystem, means a near total drop of individual revenue. The increased economic stress for months on end is likely to trigger rising crime rates, including wildlife poaching for bushmeat. You add the low, primary healthcare conditions in the remote areas of northern Kenyan and we are staring at quite an uncertain future. School children visiting Reteti Elephant Sanctuary How can your group move past the coronavirus slump? Fundraising through our long-term partners as well as new partners to help substitute lost operational funding from tourism to continue operations is our key priority as we wait for the travel restrictions to ease. How can your projects be scaled up? What does the future hold? Continuity in our quest to empower the community through conservation is what we hope for our future. With 70 percent of wildlife in Kenya being on community lands, communities, like our Samburu community, have to lead the way for wildlife to succeed in the long-term. We thus hope that our success can spur more efforts across the nation resulting in community-led conservation efforts becoming the norm, as the communities know and can see for themselves the value of nature in their lives. Moses Lenaipa is the manager of Reteti Elephant Sanctuary. This interview has been edited for clarity. As the world grinds to a halt, the sudden shutdown of most industrial activities has dramatically reduced air pollution levels. Satellite images have even revealed a clear drop in global levels of nitrogen dioxide (NO2), a gas which is primarily emitted from car engines and commercial manufacturing plants and is responsible for poor air quality in many major cities. Like NO2, carbon dioxide emissions (CO2) have also been slashed in the wake of the COVID-19 crisis. When economic activity stalls, so do CO2 emissions — in fact, the last time this happened was during the 2008-2009 financial crisis. In China alone, emissions have fallen by around 25% when the country entered lockdown, according to Carbon Brief. But this change is likely to only be temporary. As everyone retreats to their homes, some animals have been taking advantage of our absence. Reduced road traffic means little critters like hedgehogs emerging from hibernation are less likely to be hit by cars. Meanwhile, other species like ducks may be wondering where all the people have gone and will need to find other sources of food besides breadcrumbs in the park. Conservationists hope the coronavirus outbreak will help curb global wildlife trade, which is responsible for pushing a number of species to the brink of extinction. COVID-19 likely originated in a Wuhan wet market, which sells live produce and is a hub for both legal and illegally trafficked wildlife. A crackdown on trading live wildlife may be one positive thing to come out of the crisis. Shortly after Italy entered lockdown, images of crystal clear canals in Venice were shared around the world — the pristine blue waters are a far cry from their usual muddy appearance. And with cruise ships docked for the time being, our oceans are also experiencing a drop in noise pollution, lowering the stress levels of marine creatures like whales and making for a much more peaceful migration. But it's not all good news. One of the worst environmental side-effects of the coronavirus pandemic is the rapid increase in the use of disposable plastic — from medical equipment like disposable gloves, to plastic packaging as more people opt for prepackaged foods. Even cafes that remain open no longer accept reusable cups from customers in a bid to stop the virus from spreading. With the coronavirus dominating, the climate crisis has been pushed to the sidelines. But that doesn't make it any less urgent. Experts are warning that important decisions regarding the climate should not be delayed — even with the UN climate conference postponed until 2021. While emissions have dropped since the pandemic began, we're unlikely to see widespread and long-term change as a result. Author: Ineke Mules