It's Saturday morning in the center of Germany's fourth largest city Cologne. Hundreds of people are streaming past the cathedral and on into the pedestrian shopping zone. Some are wearing masks, while others are enjoying ice cream. A couple stop in front of a shop window displaying brightly colored bikinis and swimming trunks. They hesitate for a moment, then walk on. "We were thinking of going into a shop just now, but then we thought, 'no,'" says Susen. She's come to Cologne for a little holiday, but wearing a mask in the stores makes shopping stressful. She'd rather just enjoy the hustle and bustle on the street after all those weeks in isolation. Read more: Coronavirus inspires cities to push climate-friendly mobility Window shopping, not buying "Yes, the city's packed. There are loads of people out and about," says greengrocer Sven Liebe. He's set up his fruit stall on a corner by the main shopping street, Schildergasse, bananas, melons and peaches piled high. Liebe stands in front, arms crossed. "People aren't in the mood for buying, though. They all just want to wander about." Not many people are buying fruit from Sven Liebe these days He points at the passersby. It's true: Only a few are carrying shopping bags. These days, Sven and his mother, Petra, always think twice before packing up their fruit and vegetables and heading into town in the morning. "I buy €500 [$570] worth of produce, and at the end of the day I've only made €100," he says. "I'd rather just stay home. I don't need people who are just looking." Many traders in Cologne are struggling to survive. "There are still far fewer customers going into shops than before the coronavirus crisis," says Stefan Genth, managing director of the German Retail Federation (HDE). "In many places, sales are not at a viable level." According to an HDE survey of 400 business all across Germany, more than a third of retailers dealing in products other than groceries are worried they won't survive the massive drop in turnover caused by the pandemic. Read more: Amid COVID-19, Göttingen residents feel like prisoners Nearly 80% of retailers are pessimistic about the future, and they're anticipating a wave of insolvencies in the retail sector as a result of the crisis. That could change the face of Germany's city centers. "Without commerce, the city centers will die," says Genth. The outlets of major chain stores line Cologne's main shopping thoroughfares, but it's on the side streets that you can find the little boutiques, florists and jewelry stores, where a chat with the proprietor is all part of the exchange. And today, the salespeople have plenty they want to get off their chests. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3dlQ0 Independent stores on the brink "We've just done our half-yearly accounts," says Hans-Georg Reifenrath, standing behind the counter of his gift shop, Traumstern. Compared with the same period in 2019, turnover is down 61%. "That's basically a deathblow. You can't make up six months' worth of losses." Reifenrath did receive emergency aid from the government, but it wasn't much help. "That was barely enough to cover the rent," he says, adding that it will be much harder for small shops to make it through the crisis. Unlike the major chains, they don't have the financial reserves or online sales to keep them going. Read more: How nightly applause saved my sanity as a new Berliner Reifenrath is desperately hoping for more support from the government — along the lines of the French model, for example. In France, rent or gas and electricity costs have currently been suspended for midsized businesses that are in financial difficulty. Even if they manage to survive the pandemic downturn, it's still going to be hard for many businesses to make ends meet. "The uptick in online shopping can't be walked back, which means there will be a complete lack of sales in city centers," Thomas Krüger, an urban researcher, said in an interview on June 11 with tagesschau.de. "We're going to see a huge number of vacant stores in the coming weeks and months." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3dgGt But that won't be the only serious setback for German city centers. "We're also going to see fundamental changes in office usage," said Krüger. "Work structures in office-based occupations, which currently make up 70% of workplaces in large cities, are going to change considerably as a result of the crisis and people working from home." But that doesn't necessarily mean downtown streets will be lined with empty stores and deserted offices in the coming years, said Krüger. "If rents go down, there will be a chance for business models that aren't currently as strong as the big chains: fusion concepts, for example, that combine the food industry, art, sales, and office space," he said. "They can all be brought together in one place in a really exciting way: completely different markets offering completely different things." Krüger believes the crisis could also provide an opportunity for greater urban diversity. "But for that you need landlords who are prepared to go along with it. And you also need businesspeople who are prepared to take the plunge," he said. As the world grinds to a halt, the sudden shutdown of most industrial activities has dramatically reduced air pollution levels. Satellite images have even revealed a clear drop in global levels of nitrogen dioxide (NO2), a gas which is primarily emitted from car engines and commercial manufacturing plants and is responsible for poor air quality in many major cities. Like NO2, carbon dioxide emissions (CO2) have also been slashed in the wake of the COVID-19 crisis. When economic activity stalls, so do CO2 emissions — in fact, the last time this happened was during the 2008-2009 financial crisis. In China alone, emissions have fallen by around 25% when the country entered lockdown, according to Carbon Brief. But this change is likely to only be temporary. As everyone retreats to their homes, some animals have been taking advantage of our absence. Reduced road traffic means little critters like hedgehogs emerging from hibernation are less likely to be hit by cars. Meanwhile, other species like ducks may be wondering where all the people have gone and will need to find other sources of food besides breadcrumbs in the park. Conservationists hope the coronavirus outbreak will help curb global wildlife trade, which is responsible for pushing a number of species to the brink of extinction. COVID-19 likely originated in a Wuhan wet market, which sells live produce and is a hub for both legal and illegally trafficked wildlife. A crackdown on trading live wildlife may be one positive thing to come out of the crisis. Shortly after Italy entered lockdown, images of crystal clear canals in Venice were shared around the world — the pristine blue waters are a far cry from their usual muddy appearance. And with cruise ships docked for the time being, our oceans are also experiencing a drop in noise pollution, lowering the stress levels of marine creatures like whales and making for a much more peaceful migration. But it's not all good news. One of the worst environmental side-effects of the coronavirus pandemic is the rapid increase in the use of disposable plastic — from medical equipment like disposable gloves, to plastic packaging as more people opt for prepackaged foods. Even cafes that remain open no longer accept reusable cups from customers in a bid to stop the virus from spreading. With the coronavirus dominating, the climate crisis has been pushed to the sidelines. But that doesn't make it any less urgent. Experts are warning that important decisions regarding the climate should not be delayed — even with the UN climate conference postponed until 2021. While emissions have dropped since the pandemic began, we're unlikely to see widespread and long-term change as a result. Author: Ineke Mules  