Many European countries, including Germany and France, are reopening their borders to Europeans wishing to make non-essential journeys or visit tourist spots Germany has removed travel warnings for 27 European nations, with Health Minister Jens Spahn urging caution when traveling abroad Germany's seven-day virus reproduction rate has risen to 1.09 More than 7.8 million confirmed cases globally and over 432,000 fatalities All times in GMT/UTC 06:37 Indian Interior Minister Amit Shah has offered 500 railway carriages for use as makeshift coronavirus hospital wards following reports of hospitals overflowing with virus patients. Shah, India's second-most powerful politician after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, was scheduled for a meeting with all major political parties to discuss New Delhi's struggles to contain a spike in infections. Delhi currently has about 9,000 beds allocated to COVID-19 patients among public and private hospitals. However, a state government panel of experts has warned that the capital will need at least 15,000 beds by the end of June. India has reported a surge with more than 11,000 new coronavirus infections nationwide for a third consecutive day, taking the total to more than 332,000, including 9,520 deaths. The South Asian country is the fourth hardest-hit by the pandemic after the US, Russia and Brazil. 06:13 Greece has announced zero new fatalities for the fifth consecutive day, the longest run since mid-March. The country's death toll remains at 183. Nine new confirmed cases of the virus in the past 24 hours have increased the total number of infections to 3,121. Slowly resuming tourism, Greece is opening a second airport to international visitors in the city of Thessaloniki. Depending on the country of origin, arriving passengers might all be required to be tested or be tested at random. Flights will be allowed only from European Union countries, at least until June 30. Land travel with neighbouring EU country Bulgaria has also resumed. Greek museums are also reopening following a three-month shutdown. Visitors are required to wear masks and adhere to social distancing measures. 05:50 France is fully reopening its economy, including all restaurants, President Emmanuel Macron has announced. "We must relaunch our economy," Macron said. The French president said restaurants in the Paris region will be allowed to open indoor seating starting today in addition to outdoor sitting. Restaurants in other French regions have already reopened. From June 22, all nursery schools, primary schools and junior high schools will reopen. Macron also confirmed that the second round of local elections that were suspended due to the coronavirus lockdown will now take place on June 28. 05:39 Hong Kong Disneyland will reopen as of June 18 — following a similar move by Shanghai Disneyland last month. The park will reopen with limited visitor capacity and upon arrival, visitors must fill out health forms and have their temperature taken. It will also implement social distancing measures on rides, in restaurants and other facilities. All visitors will be asked to wear masks. Activities requiring close interaction such as photo sessions with Disney characters have been suspended. The city's social distancing measures, which prohibits gatherings of more than eight individuals and limits the capacity of  eateries, are set until June 18. Hong Kong currently has 1,110 reported cases of the coronavirus with four deaths. Meanwhile, China has reported 49 new coronavirus cases as Beijing reinstated measures to contain a resurgence. Of the new cases, 36 were reported in the capital. 05:15 Thailand has lifted its nightly curfew and allowed alcohol to be served in restaurants again starting today. Domestic flights are also resuming at full capacity but incoming international flights have been banned until June 30. Borders are still closed to foreign arrivals and bars and pubs are still closed. Thailand has not reported any domestic transmissions of the virus for 20 days as of Sunday. On Monday, the Southeast Asian country recorded no new coronavirus infections or deaths, maintaining the total of 3,135 confirmed cases and 58 deaths. 04:41 EU and UK leaders are set for further Brexit talks today. But with regular EU meetings being put on ice amid the coronavirus crisis, freelance interpreters have been losing work. The people who facilitate communication within a multilingual Europe are now fighting for survival. Read the full story here 04:20 As in many cities, Berlin residents were cooped up in their homes in the coronavirus lockdown. But a lucky few had a lifeline in the form of a garden plot. The German capital has 70,000 allotments, green spaces that are threatened by development. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3dkJ8 03:45 Germany on Monday reported 192 new cases of coronavirus infections and four new deaths. According to the latest figures from the Robert Koch Institute (RKI), a total of 186,461 confirmed cases have been reported since the start of the pandemic, with 8,791 deaths. The number of reproductions, or R-value, was above the critical mark of 1.0 — coming in at 1.05. 03:01 Chile will now include suspected coronavirus cases in its official death toll, Health Minister Enrique Paris said on Sunday. The inclusion of "probable deaths" to the country's epidemiological report could double the current figure. Paris took office as the new health minister on Saturday, after his predecessor Jaime Manalich resigned amid controversy over Chile's official coronavirus death toll. The health minister added that quarantine measures in the Santiago metropolitan region would be extended "at least through June." The government had said publicly that the pandemic has claimed over 3,000 lives in the country since it began, but a report published by investigative journalism organization CIPER on Saturday said Chile had informed the World Health Organization that the death toll stood at more than 5,000. 01:40 The US on Sunday reported 382 coronavirus deaths in the last 24 hours — the lowest daily death toll since the country’s mid-April peak. The US is the worst-hit country in the pandemic globally, with 2,093,335 cases of infections and 115,729 deaths. Prior to Sunday, the deaths were averaging 800 a day. 01:33 Ghana's Health Minister Kwaku Agyeman Manu has tested positive for COVID-19. He is in a stable condition, President Nana Akufo-Addo announced on Sunday, as the country starts a phased lifting of restrictions. Ghana has reported 11,964 confirmed cases of coronavirus, the highest in the region. The death toll is one of the lowest in the continent, with 54 fatalities. 01:07 New York Governor Andrew Cuomo has threatened to reimpose closings in areas where local governments have failed to enforce coronavirus rules. Cuomo mentioned Manhattan and Long Island as problem areas, while citing 25,000 complaints of reopening violations statewide. The state governor said that large gatherings, violations of social distancing, and lax face-covering enforcement are a risk to the state’s fragile progress against the coronavirus. On Saturday, Cuomo had a stern reaction to a short video from New York City, posted on Twitter, that showed young residents enjoying the day on a packed city street — many without masks. 00:10 British carrier EasyJet is resuming flights on Monday after being grounded since March 30 due to the coronavirus pandemic. The airline will start operations for a small number of mainly domestic flights. It will also resume some domestic and international routes from France, Switzerland, Italy and Portugal. Passengers will have to follow strict COVID-19 protocols, including wearing face masks.  00:05 Several European countries are opening their borders for EU travelers on Monday after nearly three months of coronavirus restrictions. The move comes a week after European Union home affairs commissioner, Ylva Johansson, told member states they "should open up as soon as possible." Germany is relaxing all inter-EU travel and travelers from neighboring countries will no longer have to prove a valid reason for entering the country. The country's Foreign Ministry also removed travel warnings for 27 European countries from its website at midnight. However, warnings are still in place for Spain, Finland, Norway and Sweden. German passport holders are still being told to avoid non-essential travel abroad, except to the countries cleared on Monday. France is opening its borders to all arrivals from the EU and nations that fall under the border-free Schengen zone. People arriving in the country from within Europe will not be put under quarantine. However, different protocols will be in place for those coming in from Spain, as well as Britain, because those countries have different reopening schedules. Spain, which will reopen its borders for EU visitors on June 21, is allowing thousands of Germans to fly to the Balearic Islands for a two-week trial run from Monday. The travelers will not be required to undergo the 14-day quarantine. The Czech Republic will require travelers from Sweden to show a negative coronavirus test or to self-quarantine, along with travelers from Portugal and Poland's Silesia. Denmark will open its borders only for those from Germany, Norway and Iceland — provided they can prove that they are staying for at least six nights. The Commission has recommended a gradual lifting of travel restrictions after June 30 for non-EU citizens seeking to travel to Europe. 00:00 Catch up on yesterday's coronavirus updates here. In reporting on the coronavirus pandemic, unless otherwise specified, DW uses figures provided by the Johns Hopkins University (JHU) Coronavirus Resource Center in the United States. JHU updates figures in real-time, collating data from world health organizations, state and national governments, and other public official sources, all of whom have their own systems for compiling information. Germany's national statistics are compiled by its public health agency, the Robert Koch Institute (RKI). These figures depend on data transmission from state and local levels and are updated around once a day, which can lead to deviation from JHU. mvb, dvv/rt (AFP, AP, dpa, Reuters) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.