Britain and the European Union agreed on Monday to intensify talks over the coming weeks in order to reach a trade deal by the end of the year. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Monday held a video conference with European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and European Council chief Charles Michel in a bid to breathe fresh life into stalled talks on future EU-UK relations. A current temporary deal is set to expire on January 1 next year. London had already ruled out asking for more time for its representatives to reach a deal. "The transition period will therefore end on 31 December 2020, in line with the provisions of the Withdrawal Agreement," according to a joint statement issued after the meeting. Read more: Brexit: EU accuses UK of trying to maintain economic benefits amid coronavirus recession It's essentially a choice of a harder or softer Brexit. Harder prioritizes border control over trade. UK firms would pay tariffs to do business in the EU, and vice versa. The softest Brexit would see access to the single market, or at least a customs union, maintained. That would require concessions — including the payment of a hefty "divorce bill" — to which the UK has provisionally agreed. Businesses have expressed concern about a "cliff edge" scenario, where Britain leaves the EU with no deal. Even if an agreement is reached at the EU bloc level, the worry is that it could be rejected at the last minute. Each of the 27 remaining countries must ratify the arrangements, and any might reject them. That could mean chaos for businesses and individuals. If there is no agreement at all, a fully sovereign UK would be free to strike new trade deals and need not make concessions on the rights of EU citizens living in the UK or pay the financial settlement of outstanding liabilities. However, trade would be crippled. UK citizens in other parts of the EU would be at the mercy of host governments. There would also be a hard EU-UK border in Ireland. The EU and the UK could reach a deal on Britain's exiting the bloc without an agreement on future relations. This scenario would still be a very hard Brexit, but would at least demonstrate a degree of mutual understanding. Trade agreements would be conducted, on an interim basis, on World Trade Organization rules. Most trade tariffs on exported goods are lifted, except for "sensitive" food items like eggs and poultry. However, exporters would have to show their products are genuinely "made in Britain" so the UK does not become a "back door" for global goods to enter the EU. Services could be hit more. The City of London would lose access to the passporting system its lucrative financial business relies on. Under the Swiss model, the UK would have single market access for goods and services while retaining most aspects of national sovereignty. Switzerland, unlike other members of the European Free Trade Area (EFTA), did not join the European Economic Area (EEA) and was not automatically obliged to adopt freedom of movement. Under a bilateral deal, it agreed to do so but is still dragging its feet. As part of the European Economic Area, Norway has accepted freedom of movement – something that no Brexit-supporting UK government would be likely to do. Norway still has to obey many EU rules and is obliged to make a financial contribution to the bloc while having no voting rights. Some see this as the worst of both worlds. Turkey is the only major country to have a customs union with the EU, as part of a bilateral agreement. Under such an arrangement, the UK would not be allowed to negotiate trade deals outside the EU, instead having the bloc negotiate on its behalf. Many Brexiteers would be unwilling to accept this. It would, however, help minimize disruption at ports and, crucially, at the Irish border. Author: Richard Connor Customs checks The parties "supported the plans ... to intensify the talks in July and to create the most conducive conditions for concluding and ratifying a deal before the end of 2020," the statement said, saying that both parties had agreed that "new momentum was required" in the faltering process. "This should include, if possible, finding an early understanding on the principles underlying any agreement." The UK government last week said that it would introduce border checks in stages after January 1, the latest signal that the country — which historically farmed most of its border controls out to European neighbors, most notably France — will not be ready to monitor its own points of entry in time. UK importers of most EU goods would instead be able to delay submitting customs declarations or paying tariffs for six months, although they would be required to keep customs records. Full checks are expected to be put in place by July next year. Discussions between EU negotiator Michel Barnier and his British counterpart David Frost have mostly taken place by video link because of the COVID-19 outbreak. Monday's virtual meeting was the first time Boris Johnson personally took part in the talks, which began three months ago. Read more: EU's Michel Barnier slams UK over Brexit negotiations "Politics and Provocation" is the title of the exhibition showing XXL caricatures by satirist Jacques Tilly, who mainly designs huge, 3D figures for Dusseldorf's annual Carnival parade. Some of them are on display at the Ludwiggalerie Schloss Oberhausen art collection in northwest Germany (February 2 — June 14). Brexit is a major — and timely — focus. Trump is another rewarding topic for Tilly. Above, the US president is portrayed as a baby in overflowing diapers, tearing up the 2015 Paris climate agreement. Environmental activists displayed the 7-meter tall object in front of the Elbphilharmonie concert hall in Hamburg during the G20 summit in July 2017, which Trump attended. One month earlier he had said the US would leave the deal. Tilly supports Swedish environmental and climate protection activist Greta Thunberg's ideas and goals. His 2019 drawing shows her angrily pulling the ears of the parents' generation ("Eltern-Generation") and demanding, "Do something about the climate disaster already!" The float built with Greta's image for the 2019 Dusseldorf Carnival parade is still used by the Fridays for Future movement. This Tilly float dates from 2016. Angela Merkel sits in a boat and is turned upside down by a wave bearing the words "Refugee wave." She may be upside down, but she remains undaunted, her fingertips touching each other in a kind of rhombus, a gesture she typically makes. Tilly and his team build the larger-than-life figures in a large hall in Dusseldorf. A framework of wooden poles is covered with wire mesh, coated in paper-mache and later painted. Tilly's figures stand out because of their strong facial features, which have a high recognition value. The gigantic caricatures are quite self-explanatory. Politicians' heads are a Tilly trademark: Be it Merkel or Trump, they are immediately recognizable. A cherubic Trump figure was on a 2019 float behind Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, who wielded a bloody chainsaw while "guardian angel" Trump held his hands protectively over him. Only the Trump figure is shown in the exhibition (above with another Merkel figure). This 2017 drawing shows caterpillars symbolizing five right-wing conservative political leaders (Poland's Jaroslaw Kaczynski, the US' Trump, Turkey's PM Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Russia's Vladimir Putin and Hungary's Viktor Orban) who gnaw away at a leaf democracy. In Poland, a float based on the drawing accompanies campaigns of government critics for democracy and the constitution. Time and again, Tilly points his finger at global right-wing populists. He sees values such as the rule of law and pluralism as threatened by a "new wave of authoritarian thinking." Tilly has raised the issue repeatedly in designs for his carnival floats, like the above one, "Blond is the New Brown," in 2017. In Germany, the color brown has historically represented the political far right. The world was shocked after the attacks on journalists at the French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo in Paris in January 2015. Many German carnival parade groups refrained from satirizing the topic because of the danger involved. Tilly, however, felt a "sense of proportion" was called for and designed a float for the Dusseldorf parade just a few weeks later that stated, "Satire cannot be killed." Author: Gaby Reucher (db) kw/mh (AP, Reuters) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.