The Philippine government recently approved a contentious anti-terrorism bill that critics say is aimed at curbing civil liberties and silencing the opposition. The 2020 Anti-Terrorism Bill is an upgrade of the Human Security Act of 2007, which the military says is outdated and insufficient to fight modern-day terrorism, which involves online recruitment and planning of terrorist activities. The new measure enables security forces to arrest suspects without a legal warrant, hold them without charges for a longer period of time and wiretap them for up to 90 days. Additionally, there will be an anti-terror council in place to define what constitutes terrorism. Read more: Dissent unwelcome in the Philippines: Vice President Leni Robredo The Philippine military backed the new legislation, arguing that the existing anti-terrorism laws are not adequate to build a strong case against a terror suspect. In a 2018 Senate hearing on the anti-terrorism bill, former army chief General Carlito Galvez Jr said that existing laws only allowed three days to build a case and charge a suspect. As a result, Galvez said, authorities had to release terror suspects. President Rodrigo Duterte, who was set to sign the bill into law, dubbed it an urgent matter. But the bill could still be challenged in the Southeast Asian country's Supreme Court. According to Antonio Carpio, a retired Supreme Court justice, "the law deals with fundamental constitutional rights."   Widespread opposition The bill was denounced by a large number of people in the Philippines. The hashtag #JunkTerrorBill has started trending on social media, with celebrities, government officials and even business groups expressing concern over it. Many fear the security forces could abuse their wide-ranging powers. "The bill labels anyone who expresses dissent a terrorist. It will give authorities more reasons to punish Muslims who are wrongfully perceived as terrorists," Khads Sarael, a 20-year-old Muslim student who participated in a protest last week, told DW. Read more: Muslim ID proposal sparks anger in Philippines Marawi Last week, police used force against anti-bill protesters in Cebu and arrested at least seven activists and students. Supporters of the bill argue that there are enough safeguards in the new legislation to ensure freedom of expression. "Those who protest peacefully are not terrorists. Our constitution ensures peaceful rallies, as they are protected by the Bill of Rights," Secretary of National Defense Delfin Lorenzana said in an interview. Mimi Garcia holds the pictures of her son Richard and daughter-in-law Robilyn who were killed by masked vigilantes on motorbikes at their shanty home in Camarin, Caloocan city, on October 7, 2016. She faces the daunting responsibility of taking care of her two grandchildren while being jobless at the same time. Andres Fernandez and his son Wesley rest at an altar inside the family home in Bagong Silang, Caloocan. On October 4, 2016, two armed men in masks went inside the Fernandez home and pointed a gun at Wesley. They made him kneel as Andres tried to help. They responded by shooting at Andres first before killing Wesley. One of the children of alleged pusher Kenneth Trasmano lights a candle during the wake of his father in Manila. Kenneth was killed in a police undercover operation after allegedly fighting back on February 2, 2018. His family and neighbors claim the police forced them to leave their homes and get out of sight, and thereafter heard the gunshots. A child holds the pictures of her deceased father Joseph and grandfather Marcelo. Marcelo was killed in a police operation inside their home on July 22, 2016. Her father was rounded up and taken by the police. His lifeless body was later found "salvaged" along a roadside. The picture shows letters written by children who have lost either one of their parents in the drug war, as part of their counselling session at Our Lady of Lourdes Parish in Camarin, Caloocan city. Family and friends walk the funeral procession of Rogelio Gilbuena and his common law wife Jenny Royo, who were both found dead (several hours apart) in different locations in Navotas city, Manila. Prior to their death, the couple were taken from their house in Navotas by 10 men who introduced themselves as police. Families of victims of drug-related extrajudicial killings offer flowers to their departed loved ones during the Holy Eucharistic Mass Action in Bagong Silang, Caloocan. Her husband Luis and her son, Gabriel, were killed in September 2016. During their burial, she was stoic. The days after she had laid them to rest were different. "I began looking for them and could not stop crying." MA nowadays attends protest rallies calling for a stop to drug-related killings and justice for those who have died. She hides her face as she doesn't want to be identified. Author: Raffy Lerma (Manila), Ana P. Santos (Manila), Rodion Ebbighausen But rights activists are not convinced by this argument. They say the Duterte administration's human rights record is abysmal. The international community has been critical of the president's handling of his campaign against drugs, with rights organizations documenting systematic rights abuse, extrajudicial killings and arrests of citizens. "There are very few safeguards in the law. In reality, we have seen this government's belligerence in dealing with any perceived opposition and its heavy-handedness to silence dissent," Kristina Conti of the Public Interest Law Center told DW. Read more: Maria Victoria Beltran: Filipino artist confronts Duterte on COVID-19 response Muslims will be targeted? Legislators from the insurgency-hit southern Mindanao region have rejected the 2020 Anti-Terrorism Bill, fearing it would increase discrimination against the Muslim community. "The law won't curb terrorism; it will empower the government to tag opponents as terrorists," said House Deputy Speaker Mujiv Hataman. Read more: The Philippines in the sights of IS Hataman represents the southern province of Basilan, which is also the birthplace of the jihadist Abu Sayyaf Group (ASG). "I have dealt with many cases of Muslims who are wrongfully arrested and detained," Hataman told DW. "We support efforts against terrorism, but they should not be at the expense of human rights," he added. Hataman is of the view that terrorism can be eradicated through dialogue, good governance, education and the provision of livelihood opportunities. "These are the programs that we need. Unfortunately, none of them is mentioned in the Anti-Terrorism Bill." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3GWdr