US President Donald Trump on Tuesday said he had authorized government officials to arrest anyone who vandalizes or destroys monuments on federal property. The president announced the measure on Twitter, saying it was effective immediately. He added that it could be used to retroactively to address past destruction or vandalism. Statue near White House targeted On Monday night, protesters tried to pull down a statue of President Andrew Jackson near the White House. Police intervened, using pepper spray to move protesters from Lafayette Square, the statue is located. Video footage posted online showed protesters on top of the statue. They tied ropes around it and tried to pull it off its pedestal. The state depicts Jackson in his military uniform atop a horse. The statue was targeted because of the 19th-century president’s cruel treatment of Native Americans. A global reckoning with the past Monuments and statues honoring controversial figures have come into the line of fire of protesters and activists after weeks of global demonstrations over racism and policing. Read more: What should be done with controversial monuments? In Europe, statues of historical figures with ties to colonialism or slavery have been vandalized or pulled down. In the US, monuments paying homage to the rebel Confederacy from the nation's Civil War-era, among others, have become key targets. Controversy over the statue of Edward Colston in Bristol was rife for years. On June 7, demonstrators removed the bronze from its pedestal and tossed it into the water. While Colston was working for the Royal African Society, an estimated 84,000 Africans were transported for enslavement; 19,000 of them died along the way. But he went down in history as a benefactor for his donations to charities. Activists accuse Robert Baden-Powell, the man who initiated the Boy Scout movement, of racism, homophobia and admiration for Adolf Hitler. His statue stood on Brownsea Island in southern England. Amid the current wave of monuments being toppled by protesters, local authorities have now removed Baden-Powell's statue as a precaution. Belgium has quite a few statues of King Leopold II. The monarch ruled the country from 1865 to 1909 and established a brutal colonial regime in Congo that is in fact considered one of the most violent in history. Protesters smeared several statues of Leopold II with paint. Authorities removed the above statue from its pedestal in the Antwerp suburb of Ekeren and sent it to a museum depot. In the US, too, disputes have flared over monuments dedicated to controversial historical figures. Among others, protesters have targeted Christopher Columbus. A statue in Boston was beheaded (photo). North American indigenous groups reject the worship of Columbus because his expeditions enabled the colonization of the continent and the genocide of its autochthonous population in the first place. Some people see Columbus as one of the most important figures in world history, but for many people in Latin America the explorer's name stands for the beginning of a painful era. From the perspective of the indigenous population, Spanish colonialism is a dark chapter in their history. In Latin America, too, statues of Columbus have been destroyed or damaged in the past. Jefferson Davis was President of the Confederate States of America, one of the leaders in the country's mid 19th-century Civil War. Protesters toppled and spray-painted the Confederate president's statue in Richmond, Virginia. House speaker Nancy Pelosi urged the removal of Confederate statues from the US Capitol because they were monuments to men "who advocated cruelty and barbarism." Another Confederate statue in Richmond, this one a monument to General Robert E. Lee, is to be removed in the next few days. Governor Ralph Northam has given orders to take down the monument. Many African Americans regards the statues of Confederate politicians and soldiers as symbols of oppression and slavery. Author: Rayna Breuer (db) kp/rc (Reuters, AP)  