22' SAVE! A blunder from Matthias Ginter allows Lucas Hernandez to steal possession inside the box and smash an effort towards goal. But goalkeeper Yann Sommer makes a massive stop to deny the Frenchman. 16' GOAL (ruled out by VAR) — Jonas Hofmann with a wonderful low finish after breaking through Bayern's defense. But he's ruled marginally offside after the referee checks with VAR. No goal. 10' Big blow for Gladbach. Marcus Thuram has gone off due to injury and is replaced by Breel Embolo. Not a great sign for their hopes in causing an upset here. 1' KICK-OFF! The action has started in Munich. 18:22 CET — Gladbach have had a very inconsistent run of games since the restart. Victories over Eintracht and Union Berlin have been mixed with losses to Leverkusen and Freiburg and a draw with Bremen. It's not the kind of form befitting a team chasing a top-four spot. 18:15 CET — Bayern are showing off their squad strength tonight. Lucas Hernandez replaces Alphonso Davies at left-back, Michael Cuisance is handed his first ever start for the club, and against his former team. Zirkzee makes just his third appearance in the starting lineup. This is definitely not a full-strength Bayern side, we'll soon see how they fare against Champions League hopefuls Gladbach. 17:45 CET — The teams have been announced... Bayern start with Gnabry, which is a boost in the absence of Lewandowski, while Hernandez, Zirkzee and Cuisance also get rare chances. Gladbach's lineup has no room for Breel Embolo, who seems to be deemed fit enough only for the bench. With Borussia Dortmund sealing a last-gasp victory, Bayern Munich will have to wait at least one more week before wrapping up their eighth consecutive title. First, however, they need to make sure they continue their scintillating form with victory over Borussia Mönchengladbach. The action kicks off at 18:30 CEST (17:30 UTC) — stay tuned for all the pre-game updates. Full-time (in Dortmund) Fortuna Düsseldorf 0-1 Borussia Dortmund — Who else but Erling Haaland! In the last minute of added time, the Norwegian has risen high to give Dortmund a very important lead with a fine header. The title race is still - very faint - chance. All Black and Yellow eyes will be hoping for a Bayern slip against Gladbach. 66' (in Dortmund) VAR! Fortuna Düsseldorf 0-0 Borussia Dortmund — Guerreiro's goal has been ruled out for handball in the build-up. A draw would almost certainly hand the title to Bayern if they beat Gladbach, although not mathematically. 65' (in Dortmund) GOAL! Fortuna Düsseldorf 0-1 Borussia Dortmund — Raphel Guerreiro puts Dortmund ahead after a combination from Hakimi, Hazard and Haaland created the opportunity. Half-time (in Dortmund) It's 0-0 in Düsseldorf as Dortmund have struggled to find a way through Fortuna's defense. Achraf Hakimi had the away side's best chance but was denied by Florian Kastenmeier. Hello and welcome to DW's coverage of Bayern Munich's Bundesliga clash with Borussia Mönchengladbach. The match kicks off at 18:30 CEST (17:30 UTC) but our match blog will go live at 15:30 to include brief updates on Borussia Dortmund's visit to Fortuna Düsseldorf. The title race could be decided if results fall a certain way... State of play If Borussia Dortmund lose their clash against Fortuna Düsseldorf in the early kick-off on Saturday, the way is clear for Bayern Munich to be crowned Bundesliga champions for the eighth straight season. They'll come up against a Borussia Mönchengladbach side desperate to pick up points to aid their quest for Champions League qualification. Team news Bayern will have to do without a string of stars, chief among them top goalscorer Robert Lewandowski. The Pole is suspended for this clash and youngster Joshua Zirkzee will likely take his place. Thomas Müller joins Lewandowski with a suspension, while Thiago is missing through injury and Serge Gnabry is also a doubt. Gladbach, meanwhile, are also missing their top scorer in Alassane Plea due to a red-card suspension. Possible lineups: Bayern Munich Neuer — Pavard, Boateng, Alaba, Davies — Kimmich, Martinez — Coman, Goretzka, Perisic — Zirkzee Possible lineups: Borussia Mönchengladbach Sommer — Lainer, Ginter, Elvedi, Bensebaini — Hofmann, Kramer, Neuhaus — Stindl — Embolo, Thuram