The Italian coastguard sent help on Saturday to a rescue boat funded by street artist Banksy after the vessel issued urgent pleas for assistance, saying it was stranded and overloaded with migrants. The coastguard said a patrol boat dispatched from the southern Italian island of Lampedusa had taken 49 of "those considered most vulnerable" among the 219 migrants onboard the migrant rescue boat, called Louise Michel. The rest were transferred onto another vessel, the German-flagged Sea-Watch 4. "Louise Michel no longer has guests on board, but the struggle of the survivors is not over," a Twitter account for the rescue ship wrote on Sunday. The Sea-Watch 4 now has about 350 people on board, including people saved in previous rescues, the ship said. Over two dozen of the migrants have been at sea for over three weeks. The Louise Michel earlier made a call for emergency help on Twitter after coming to the aid of another boat in the Mediterranean. The vessel, which has a crew of 10, had rescued 89 people on Thursday from a rubber dinghy in distress. It then encountered and assisted another boat trying to cross from North Africa to Europe which had 130 people on board, including someone who had already died. Distress calls initially ignored The 31-meter (101-foot) Louise Michel, which sails under a German flag, requested help on Twitter, saying that the migrants that it had picked up had been at sea for days. One had already died and some were suffering from fuel burns, another message said. A later message read: "#LouiseMichel is unable to safely move and nobody is coming to our aid. The people rescued have experienced extreme trauma, it's time for them to be brought to a #PlaceOfSafety. We need immediate assistance." European rescue missions ceased in July during the coronavirus pandemic. The crew of the Louise Michel said that European relief agencies had refused their call for help and called on them to take responsibility, tweeting to the Maltese army to "proceed immediately to the position and do your job!" Pink, 'anti-fascist' boat The boat is painted pink and white and features a piece of artwork by Banksy showing a young girl in a life-vest and holding a safety buoy in the shape of a heart. The artist, whose identity is unknown, reached out to German human rights activist Pia Klemp in September 2019 and offered to buy the rescue mission a new boat. Read more: Refugees in Germany: The Jafaars, Angela Merkel and fleeing Syria The boat is small, but fast and able to outrun the Libyan coastguard, according to The Guardian. It is named after the 19th century French anarchist Louise Michel. Klemp told the newspaper that she believed she was chosen by the artist for her political position saying, "I don't see sea rescue as a humanitarian action, but as part of an anti-fascist fight." Last year, over 100,000 people attempted to make the journey across the Mediterranean in order to escape conflict and poverty in Africa and the Middle East with nearly 1,300 people dying. Banksy has previously been critical of Europe's lackluster response to the migrant crisis. Banksy has funded a boat to rescue refugees trying to cross from North Africa to Europe. The Louise Michel, named after a 19th-century French feminist anarchist, is covered with pink paint and the street artist's graffiti. According to "The Guardian," 89 people were rescued on Thursday. Since the beginning of 2020, at least 500 migrants have died crossing the Mediterranean Sea. A vigil candle sets fire to the US flag: Banksy revealed in June 2020 on Instagram a painting commenting on George Floyd's killing and honoring the Black Lives Matter movement. "People of color are being failed by the system. The white system," the artist wrote. "This is a white problem. And if white people don't fix it, someone will have to come upstairs and kick the door in," he added. Spiderman and Batman are yesterday's superheroes: This little boy prefers to play with a nurse wearing a face mask and a cape. With this picture revealed at the beginning of May 2020, Banksy paid tribute to the outstanding contribution of doctors, nurses and hospital workers during the COVID-19 pandemic. In December 2019, Banksy posted a video showing his mural of reindeer taking off -but instead of Santa's sleigh in tow, it's a man lying on a bench, aimed to draw attention to the plight of the homeless. "God bless Birmingham," the artist wrote. "In the 20 minutes we filmed Ryan on this bench passers-by gave him a hot drink, two chocolate bars and a lighter — without him ever asking for anything." The elusive street artist created in 2009 "Devolved Parliament," featuring chimps instead of politicians in the British Parliament. Amid the chaos caused by Brexit, the work embodies the country's political atmosphere. The 2.8 x 4.5-meter (around 9 x 15-foot) painting was auctioned off in London in October 2019 for 9.8 million pounds (around €11 million). Another auction at Sotheby's in London also caused a huge stir. Just after Banksy's painting "Girl with Balloon" was sold for 1 million pounds (then 1.2 million euros) in 2018, it began to self-destruct as a shredder was hidden in the lower part of the frame, but it did not complete the process. It morphed into "Love is in the Bin." The motif first appeared in 2002 as a mural in London. The millions of pounds that "Devolved Parliament" reaped in October also sparked criticism, with no information about the buyer provided. Likewise in October, Banksy installed artwork in a closed shop in London as a commentary, saying that artworks at auction had become the property of the rich rather being the common property of people at large. Banksy is one of the most famous street artists in the world, yet his true identity remains under wraps. Paintings or drawings on paper are rare creations of his. Instead, the British artist sprays most of his works anonymously on buildings, walls, and demolition ruins. Such street art is not for sale. A recurring theme in his works is the predatory nature of global capitalism. Banksy sprayed this mural in the entrance area of the refugee camp in Calais, southern England. Depicted is the late Apple founder Steve Jobs, carrying his legendary first Mac computer. The father of the Apple director hailed from Syria. Banksy addressed the Brexit debate in the UK with this work back in 2017. Overnight, this picture appeared on the wall of a house not far from the ferry port in Dover ferry port: It shows a man standing on a ladder trying to remove one of the EU stars with a hammer and chisel. The image has meanwhile disappeared from the wall, with someone having whitewashed it. The British street artist has also addressed the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. In 2017, Banksy opened The Walled Off Hotel, an actual hotel featuring his artworks, in Bethlehem right next to the controversial Israeli West Bank barrier. The artist has also left quite a few of his artworks throughout this historic town since 2005, drawing many tourists on a "Banksy Tour." One known fact about Banksy's identity is that the world-famous artist comes from Bristol in southern England. He moved on to London at the end of the 1990s and began to spray his pictorial messages onto the walls of selected locations. Here, he was back in Bristol in 2016, leaving behind a mural at a English primary school in Whitchurch. As an artist, Banksy has always been a visionary. In his wall works, he has often addressed the political problems of the future, such as global warming, as shown here. He created this sprayed message in London in 2009 — long before US President Trump announced this sentence in all seriousness. Banksy has also denounced the brutalization of the media, which jumps onto the bandwagon of sensationalism with regard to war and terrorist attack victims. This is depicted in this work entitled "Media at war," which, like some of his other works, has not been sprayed onto a building wall, making it possible to exhibit it in a gallery, such as here in London in 2018. Author: Heike Mund, Louisa Schaefer ab, jsi/mm (AFP, dpa)  