French, British and German defense ministers on Friday insisted their troops would stay assigned to UN and French-led missions in Mali — despite a military coup last Tuesday. Europe's "engagement" in the UN's MINUSMA mission and France's Operation Barkane since 2012-2013 was "still necessary," said the host of the tripartite talks, Germany's Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer. The anti-jihadist campaigns across the Sahel were "still necessary," said Kramp-Karrenbauer, "because terrorism remains a great threat, including for us here." Read more: Mali: A revolt that led to a coup d'etat Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3hCgz French Defense Minister Florence Parly said the Sahel's "security challenge" also represented a threat for the "whole of Europe" to Africa's north. Britain's Ben Wallace, referring to Mali's coup, said "stability must be restored." The three ministers urged Malian soldiers who led this week's coup to "return to constitutional order." Kramp-Karrenbauer echoed German Chancellor Angela Merkel's condemnation of the coup. Mali's CNPS junta is headed by Assimi Goita, According to a biography released the day after the coup, he attended elite military schools in Mali and rounded off his training in Gabon, Germany and the US. Read more: Opinion: Time to match deeds to words in Mali The ministers met in Dillingen, in Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer's home state of Saarland Assigned to MINUSMA, begun in 2013, are 13,000 UN "blue helmets," including currently some 900 German troops stationed mainly in Mali's restive Gao desert region, where Goita led infantry units from 2002 to 2008. Since 2018, Britain has had some 100 soldiers assigned to France's 5,100-strong Operation Barkane, and has agreed to provide 250 British troops to MINUSMA starting this year. In addition, the European Training Mission in Mali comprises 620 military instructors from 28 European countries, to train and equip Mali's army and more recently troops of neighboring G5 Sahel nations, including Niger and Chad. Since 1999, the UN has been trying to pacify the eastern region of the DR Congo. The mission known as MONUSCO has nearly 20,000 soldiers and an annual budget of $1.4 billion (1.3 billion euros). Despite being the largest and most expensive mission of the United Nations, violence in the country continues. UNAMID is a joint mission of the African Union and the UN in Sudan's volatile Darfur region. Observers consider the mission a failure. "The UN Security Council should work harder at finding political solutions, rather than spending money for the military's long-term deployment," says security expert Thierry Vircoulon. Since the beginning of South Sudan's civil war in 2013, nearly 4 million people have been displaced according to the UN. Some of them are being sheltered in UN compounds. But when clashes between government forces and rebels broke out in the capital Juba in July 2016, the blue helmets failed to effectively intervene. Later, the Kenyan UNMISS commander was sacked by former UN chief Ban Ki-moon. UN peacekeepers in Mali are monitoring compliance with the peace agreement between the government and an alliance of Tuareg-led rebels. But Islamist terrorist groups such as AQIM continue to carry out attacks making MINUSMA one of the UN's most dangerous military intervention in the world. Germany has deployed more than 700 soldiers as well as helicopters. MINUSCA, the UN's mission in Central Africa Republic has not helped to improve the image of the United Nations in Africa. French troops have been accused of sexually abusing children by the Code Blue Campaign. Three years on, victims haven't got any help from the UN. Since 2014, 10,000 soldiers and 1,800 police officers have been deployed. Violence in the country has receded but tensions remain. The UN mission in the Westsahara known as MINURSO has been active since 1991. MINURSO is there to monitor the armistice between Morocco and the rebels of the "Frente Polisario" who are fighting for the independence of the Western Sahara. In 2016, Morocco which has occupied this territory since 1976, dismissed 84 MINURSO staff after being angered by a statement from the UN Secretary-General. The UN mission in Ivory Coast fulfilled its objectives on June 30, 2016 after 14 years. Since 2016, the troops have been gradually withdrawn. Former Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said this was a "turning point for the United Nations and the Ivory Coast." But only after the full withdrawal will it be clearly known whether or not the mission was successful on a long-term basis. The UN deployment in Liberia is - as in neighboring Ivory Coast - will soon be history. The soldiers are leaving by mid-2017. Since the end of the 14-year civil war, UNMIL has ensured stability in Liberia and helped build a functioning state. Liberia's government now wants to provide security for itself. The country is still struggling with the consequences of a devastating Ebola epidemic. The UNISFA soldiers are patrolling the disputed oil-rich region of Abyei. Sudan and South Sudan both claim to be rightful owners of this territory located between the two countries. More than 4,000 blue helmets from Ethiopia are deployed. Ethiopia is the world's second largest peace-keeping contributor. At the same time, the Ethiopian army is accused of human rights violations back home. UN peacekeepers in Somalia are fighting under the leadership of the African Union in a mission known as AMISOM. The soldiers are in the Horn of African country to battle the al-Shabaab Islamists and bring stability to the war-torn nation. Ethiopia, Burundi, Djibouti, Kenya and Uganda, Sierra Leone, Ghana and Nigeria have all contributed their troops for AMISOM. Author: Martina Schwikowski Meanwhile, thousands of opposition supporters gathered in capital Bamako's Independence square on Friday to celebrate the ouster of President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita. The supporters were part of the June 5 Movement, a loose coalition which had launched protests demanding Keita's resignation. While the military coup continued to draw international condemnation, people at the Bamako rally were seen cheering as the new junta praised the public for their support. Many were blowing vuvuzela horns, draped in the Malian national flag. "We have come here to thank you, to thank the Malian public for its support. We merely completed the work that you began and we recognize ourselves in your fight," the junta's spokesman, Ismael Wague, said at the rally. Hundreds of people marched in central Bamako to celebrate Keita's departure ipj/rt (dpa, AFP, Reuters, KNA) 