Hello and welcome one and all to DW's rolling sports news feed with the latest headlines from around the world of sports. If you're looking for the latest Bundesliga transfer news click here. Latest headlines Harry Maguire found guilty of assault, attempted bribery A Greek court on Tuesday found Manchester United captain Harry Maguire guilty of assault, violence against public employees, insult and attempted bribery. The court also reportedly handed him a suspended prison sentence of 21 months and 10 days. The charges stemmed from a brawl last week on the island of Mykonos. Manchester United have issued a statement saying the 27-year-old defender "continues to strongly assert his innocence'' and would appeal the verdict. However, this did not stop England manager Gareth Southgate from withdrawing the defender from his squad for the upcoming friendlies. "In light of this evening’s developments, I can confirm I have withdrawn Harry Maguire from the England squad for the matches against Iceland and Denmark," Southgate said in a statement. Joachim Löw names three first-timers in squad With the UEFA Nations League just around the corner, Löw has named a 23-man squad for the matches against Spain and Switzerland. Bayern Munich's treble winners are all exempt from featuring, which has opened the door for three new names in goalkeeper Oliver Baumann, Atalanta's Robin Gosens and Florian Neuhaus of Borussia Mönchengladbach. Formula 1 adds new dates to calendar F1 added four more races to this year's calendar on Tuesday and said "a limited number of fans'' will be able to attend some of the remaining events in the pandemic-disrupted season. Races in Turkey, Abu Dhabi and two in Bahrain will take place in November and December, completing the heavily reshaped calendar. Schalke call off friendly after players tests positive for COVID-19 Bundesliga team Schalke called off a friendly with Würzburger Kickers after midfielder Alessandro Schöpf tested positive for the coronavirus. " Contact tracing is already underway,'' the club said on it's website before confirming that the first round of three additional tests for players and staff all returned negative. Read more: Former Schalke captain Höwedes calls time on career Harry Maguire trial starts in Greece The trial of Manchester United defender Harry Maguire began Tuesday in Greece following his arrest after a brawl with police last week in Mykonos. The England international and two other unnamed defendants have been charged with assault and swearing in public, while Maguire is also facing bribery charges. Usain Bolt confirms positive test for COVID-19 World-record sprinter and eight-time Olympic gold medalist Usain Bolt has tested positive for the coronavirus and is self-isolating in Jamaica after celebrating his 34th birthday with a mask-free bash. "Just to be safe I quarantined myself and just taking it easy," Bolt said in a video posted on social media. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3hOCr