A court in Britain on Thursday sentenced Hashem Abedi, the younger brother of the suicide bomber who set off an explosion at an Ariana Grande concert in Manchester, to a minimum of 55 years in jail. His brother Salman Abedi died in the blast, which killed 22 people and injured hundreds more. Judge Jeremy Baker said the two brothers were "equally culpable for the deaths and injuries caused by the explosion." "Although Salman Abedi was directly responsible, it was clear the defendant took an integral part in the planning,"  Baker said. Abedi, now aged 23, was found guilty in March of 22 counts of murder, attempted murder, and conspiring to cause explosions likely to endanger life. Read more: Manchester bomb attack: UK remembers victims one year on Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2y951 Hashem Abedi had denied helping plan the attack at the Manchester Arena concert on May 22, 2017, but offered no evidence in his trial. A jury agreed he was as guilty as his brother of murder. Abedi refused to attend court for the sentencing hearing, where families of the victims had given accounts of the impact the bombing had had on their lives. The judge said that had Hashem Abedi been over age of 21 at the time of the attack, he would have been given a " whole-life term." Instead, he was sentenced to serve a minimum of 55 years before parole may be considered. "The defendant should clearly understand the minimum term he should serve is 55 years. He may never be released, '' Baker said, adding that there was a "significant degree of premeditation" and that the motivation for the brothers was "to advance the ideology of Islamism." Read more: How 'closed communities' provide a breeding ground for radical Islam Both brothers grew up in Manchester. Singer Ariana Grande returned to the stage in Manchester on Sunday with a program packed with upbeat, defiant pop songs. "Manchester, we're gonna be all right," she yelled, as she kicked off the One Love tribute concert, aimed to raise money for those affected by the May 22 bombing. Long queues stretched outside the Old Trafford cricket ground where the charity gig was held. A host of stars performed alongside Ariana Grande, including Justin Bieber, Katy Perry, Coldplay, Take That and Miley Cyrus. Former Oasis frontman Liam Gallagher - possibly Manchester's most famous rock star - also made a surprise appearance. British singer Robbie Williams also took to the stage, changing some of his lyrics of "Strong" to honor the Manchester victims. "Manchester we're strong ... we're still singing our song," he sang with the more than 50,000 people estimated to have attended the event. An armed policeman poses for a photo with music fans ahead of the concert. There had been fears the event might be canceled after the terror attacks in London on Saturday night. But Grande's manager, Scooter Braun, said the Manchester concert would go ahead "with greater purpose" because of what happened in London. An armed policeman stands at the entrance of the Old Trafford cricket ground. Police had warned security would be tight at the event, with "significant" numbers of personnel and mounted officers. The concert's overwhelming message was one of unity and defiance in the face of terror. The concert was streamed worldwide on television and the internet, with all proceeds going to an emergency fund set up by the city of Manchester and the British Red Cross. The bomb set off towards the end of the US pop singer's concert as parents arrived to collect their children. Among the deaths were seven children, the youngest aged eight, while 237 people were injured and hundreds more were reported to have suffered from psychological trauma.  mvb/rt (AP, AFP, Reuters)