Afghanistan’s government released hundreds of Taliban prisoners over the weekend during a rare cease-fire that was due to expire on Sunday, the last day of the Muslim festival Eid-al Adha. Just hours before the truce was set to conclude, armed men tried to storm a government-controlled prison outside the eastern city of Jalalabad. The attack involved a large car bomb blast and at least two smaller detonations heard inside the facility, local officials said. The militants opened fire at the prison security guards, with the authorities deploying police forces to the scene. At least seven people were killed and 25 injured, according to provincial council member Sohrab Qaderi. The councilman also said a number of prisoners apparently escaped during the clash. The Taliban denied they were involved in the attack and they were honoring the cease-fire. Slow crawl towards peace talks The latest attack could shake the already troubled peace effort, which the government had tried to boost by freeing the Taliban captives. The government had released 317 Taliban prisoners since the holiday began on Friday, Afghanistan’s National Security Council said on Twitter on Sunday. The inmates were part of the 500 Taliban prisoners ordered free by Afghan President Ashraf Ghani on Friday in a gesture of goodwill.  Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3c9Il Both President Ashraf Ghani and the Taliban have signaled that protracted peace negotiations could begin once Eid-al Adha is over. Taliban freed 1,000 prisoners The Taliban and the US in February signed a deal that slated Afghan peace talks to begin in March, but discussions were delayed by disagreements over terms of a prisoner swap. The deal — which sets the stage for the withdrawal of all international troops from Afghanistan — required Kabul to free some 5,000 Taliban prisoners in exchange for 1,000 Afghan security personnel held by the Taliban. The individuals freed over the weekend bring the total number of Taliban prisoners released from Afghan custody to just over 4,900. The Taliban on Thursday said it had freed 1,000 prisoners as agreed in its deal with the US. 400 still held for serious crimes Afghan authorities continue to hold some 400 Taliban prisoners accused of serious crimes, despite the militant group’s request for their release. Ghani on Friday had said he had "no authority" under the country's constitution to pardon the inmates' crimes. He would instead call a loya jirga, a traditional grand council of elders, to decide whether they should go free. Deadly violence has persisted in Afghanistandespite the signing of the US-Taliban deal, with Taliban forces killing over 3,500 Afghan troops, the president said. Foreign troops have been on the ground in the Middle Eastern country since 2001. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3fevh kp,dj/mm (AFP, dpa)  