Akua Denteh was beaten to death in Ghana's East Gonja District last month — after being accused of being a witch. The murder of the 90-year-old has once more highlighted the deep-seated prejudices against women accused of practicing witchcraft in Ghana, many of whom are elderly. An arrest was made in early August, but the issue continues to draw attention after authorities were accused of dragging their heels in the case. Human rights and gender activists now demand to see change in culture in a country where supernatural beliefs play a big role. But the case of Akua Denteh is far from an isolated instance in Ghana, or indeed the world at large. In many countries of the world, women are still accused of practicing witchcraft each year. They are persecuted and even killed in organized witch hunts — especially in Africa but also in Southeast Asia and Latin America. Read more: Ghana: witchcraft accusations put lives at risk Many women in Ghana are pushed to live in so-called witch camps because they are rejected by society Witch hunts: a contemporary issue Those accused of witchcraft have now found a perhaps unlikely charity ally in their fight for justice: the Catholic missionary society missio, which is part of the global Pontifical Mission Societies under the jurisdiction of the Pope, has declared August 10 as World Day against Witch Hunts, saying that in at least 36 nations around the world, people continue to be persecuted as witches. While the Catholic Church encouraged witch hunts in Europe from the 15th to the 18th century, it is now trying to shed light into this dark practice. Part of this might be a sense of historical obligation — but the real driving force is the number of victims that witch hunts still cost today. Historian Wolfgang Behringer, who works as a professor specializing in the early modern age at Saarland University, firmly believes in putting the numbers in perspective. He told DW that during these three centuries, between 50,000 and 60,000 people are assumed to have been killed for so-called crimes of witchcraft — a tally that is close to being twice the population of some major German cities at the time. But he says that in the 20th century alone, more people accused of witchcraft were brutally murdered than during the three centuries when witch hunts were practiced in Europe: "Between 1960 and 2000, about 40,000 people alleged of practicing witchcraft were murdered in Tanzania alone. While there are no laws against witchcraft as such in Tanzanian law, village tribunals often decide that certain individuals should be killed," Behringer told DW. The historian insists that due to the collective decision-making behind these tribunals, such murders are far from being arbitrary and isolated cases: "I've therefore concluded that witch hunts are not a historic problem but a burning issue that still exists in the present.” A picture of so-called witch doctors in Sierra Leone taken roughly around the year 1900 A pan-African problem? In Tanzania, the victims of these witch hunts are often people with albinism; some people believe that the body parts of these individuals can be used to extract potions against all sorts of ailments. Similar practices are known to take place in Zambia and elsewhere on the continent. Meanwhile in Ghana, where nonagenarian Akua Denteh was bludgeoned to death last month, certain communities blame the birth of children with disabilities on witchcraft. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3EZ6D In the Democratic Republic of the Congo, it is usually the younger generations who are associated witchcraft. So-called "children of witchcraft" are usually rejected by their families and left to fend for themselves. However, their so-called crimes often have little to do with sorcery at all: "We have learned of numerous cases of children suffering rape and then no longer being accepted by their families. Or they are born as illegitimate children out of wedlock and are forced to live with a parent who does no longer accepts them," says Thérèse Mema Mapenzi, who works as a mission project partner in the eastern DRC city of Bukayu. 'Children of witchcraft' in the DRC Mapenzi's facility was initially intended to be a women's shelter to harbor women who suffered rape at the hands of the militia in the eastern parts of the country, where rape is used as a weapon of war as part of the civil conflict there. But over the years, more and more children started seeking her help after they were rejected as "children of witchcraft." With assistance from the Catholic missionary society missio, Mapenzi is now also supporting these underage individuals in coping with their many traumas while trying to find orphanages and schools for them. "When these children come here, they have often been beaten to a pulp, have been branded as witches or have suffered other injuries. It is painful to just even look at them. We are always shocked to see these children devoid of any protection. How can this be?" Mapenzi wonders. Thérèse Mema Mapenzi is trying to help women and girls accused of being "children of witchcraft" Seeking dialogue to end witch hunts But there is a whole social infrastructure fueling this hatred against these young people in the DRC: Many charismatic churches blame diseases such as HIV/AIDS or female infertility on witchcraft, with illegitimate children serving as scapegoats for problems that cannot be easily solved in one of the poorest countries on earth. Other reasons cited include sudden deaths, crop failures, greed, jealousy and more. Thérèse Mema Mapenzi says that trying to help those on the receiving end of this ire is a difficult task, especially in the absence of legal protection: "In Congolese law, witchcraft is not recognized as a violation of the law because there is no evidence you can produce. Unfortunately, the people have therefore developed their own legal practices to seek retribution and punish those whom call them witches." In addition to helping those escaping persecution, Mapenzi also seeks dialogue with communities to stop prejudice against those accused of witchcraft and sorcery. She wants to bring estranged families torn apart by witch hunts back together. Acting as a mediator, she talks to people and from time to time succeeds in reuniting relatives with women and children who had been ostracized and shamed. Mapenzi says that such efforts — when they succeed — take an average of two to three years from beginning to finish. But even with a residual risk of the victims being suspected of witchcraft again, she says it is worth it. She says that the fact that August 10 has been recognized as the World Day against Witch Hunts sends a signal that her work is important — and needed. Hunting the hunters  a dangerous undertaking For Thérèse Mema Mapenzi, the World Day against Witch Hunts marks another milestone in her uphill battle in the DRC. Jörg Nowak, spokesman for missio, agrees and hopes that there will now be growing awareness about this issue around the globe. As part of his work, Nowak has visited several missio project partners fighting to help bring an end to witch hunts in recent years. But he wasn't aware about the magnitude of the problem himself until 2017. The first case he dealt with was the killing of women accused of being witches in Papua New Guinea in the 2010s — which eventually resulted in his publishing a paper on the crisis situation in the country and becoming missio's dedicated expert on witch hunts. But much of Nowak's extensive research in Papua New Guinea remains largely under wraps for the time being, at least in the country itself: the evidence he accrued against some of the perpetrators there could risk the lives of missio partners working for him. Not much has changed for centuries, apart from the localities involved when it comes to the occult belief in witchcraft, says Nowak while stressing: "There is no such thing as witchcraft. But there are accusations and stigmatization designed to demonize people; indeed to discredit in order to gain selfish advantages for others." Maxwell Suuk and Isaac Kaledzi contributed to this article. One woman is made responsible for the fact that her nephew died of a snake bite. Another is accused of making someone else's child sick. In Ghana, allegations of witchcraft are common. They're a way for families to get rid of women who are no longer of use to them or who have become too independent. Munich-based photographer Ann-Christine Woehrl spent time with some of the accused women. Women in West Africa who are branded as witches have to fear for their lives. Many of them are poisoned, strangled, drowned or burned to death. They find refuge in northern Ghana in six so-called witch villages. Gambaga and Gushiegu are the two villages Ann-Christine Woehrl visited. Women accused of witchcraft lose their homes and their identities. They are forced to give up their role as mother, daughter and wife and are sent into exile. Now they live in a community of women who share their fate. Each woman has a small hut to herself and they all contribute to fulfilling their basic needs and supporting the village. Ann-Christine Woehrl hung black fabric in front of one of the huts and posed 40 women in front of the neutral background. She listened and gave them space to tell their stories. In front of the camera, the women were able to show who they really were or who they wanted to become once again. The women build their huts and plant the surrounding fields. In the dry season, they go to the market and collect grain that has fallen to the ground, which no one else wants. They are thinner and poorer than other market-goers and no one pays any attention to them. Essentially, the women are invisible. Their lively conversations can only be heard when they return to their village in the evening. The belief in supernatural powers is widespread in much of West Africa - in both urban and rural areas and across ethnicities and religions. An estimated 1,300 to 1,500 women live in Ghana's six witch villages, plus a number of their children. In her photos, Ann-Christine Woehrl captured their collective sense of stigmatization. The women in the "witch villages" know that they cannot return to their families. Yet, many of them still hope for a small miracle. Ann-Christine Woehrl's photos gave them a new sense of confidence and pride. For some of the women, it was the first time they had seen an image of themselves. A book showing a selection of Woehrl's photos will soon be published. Author: Silke Bartlick / kbm