A 25-year-old man has tested positive twice for coronavirus, in what officials think may be the first instance of coronavirus reinfection in the US. The man was found to have the virus in April after showing mild symptoms. He recovered and tested negative twice, and then tested positive again in June — this time requiring hospitalization. Similar cases of reinfection have been recently reported in Hong Kong and in Europe. Here's what else you need to know about the pandemic from around the world: Cases of coronavirus in California rose by at least 5,306 to 692,890 on Friday, according to a tally from news agency Reuters. The number of deaths in the state went up by at least 144 to 12,841, the agency said. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officials reported 230 more cases of the virus at a detention facility in Arizona, far more than other such facilities. A total of 356 people have tested positive for coronavirus at the La Palma Correctional Center in the city of Eloy. Brazil registered 43,412 new cases and 855 new deaths on Friday. The world’s second worst-affected country after the US now has a total of 119,504 deaths, and 3,804,803 new cases. Drugmaker Gilead said US regulators are now allowing the use of experimental antiviral drug remdesivir for all patients hospitalized with COVID-19. The US FDA has expanded its emergency use authorization, which was previously limited only to patients with a severe case of the virus. Canada’s public safety minister Bill Blair said on Twitter that the country is extending restrictions on travelers arriving in the country for another month till September 30, to help combat the spread of COVID-19. Canadian nationals and permanent residents who are returning will continue to be subjected to strict quarantine measures. Bangladeshi drugmaker Beximco Pharmaceuticals has announced plans to invest in India’s Serum Institute, to ensure Bangladesh gets priority access to the vaccines it is developing. Details about the size of investment were not made clear. The Serum Institute has partnered with AstraZeneca to produce more than 1 billion doses of a COVID-19 vaccine for global supply. Bangladesh has expressed willingness to hold trials of candidate vaccines being developed by India. The Korea Medical Association plans to organize a nationwide strike starting September 7, for an indefinite period. South Korea's Health Ministry had extended a back-to-work order for its doctors, and filed police complaints against 10 doctors who did not abide. Read more: South Korea struggling to control resurgence of coronavirus Interns and resident doctors have been protesting since August 21 over the government’s plans to prepare for public health crises. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3hd0i Foreign diplomats called on Zimbabwe's President Emmerson Mnangagwa's government to stop using the COVID-19 pandemic to "restrict citizens' fundamental rights." The diplomats from Germany, Poland, Britain, the US, Canada, Norway and the Netherlands wrote the comments in a statement, two years on since Mnangagwa won disputed elections. France registered nearly 7,400 new cases in the past 24 hours. Health authorities called the rise "exponential." In a bid to curb the spread, people in capital Paris will have to wear face masks throughout the city. German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Friday warned that the coming months are likely to see the coronavirus pandemic get worse. She called on people in Germany to continue taking the threat seriously. Read more: Germany's Angela Merkel warns of hard months to come Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3hiTh Hungary has tightened its border restrictions in a bid to stop imported cases. Foreigners will be barred from entering the country from September 1. From this date, any returning citizens will be required to show two negative tests to avoid a 14-day quarantine. Greece has announced plans to extend a lockdown on migrant camps to at least September 15. Concerns are growing over the spread of the virus in hugely overcrowded camps on five Aegean islands. The first case of COVID-19 was reported at the Vial migrant camp in Chios in mid-August. Thousands of German students head abroad every year — but university experience and exchange programs have altered beyond recognition in the pandemic. With term starting, DW spoke to students who chose to stay overseas. While some countries are reporting more and more new cases every day, others are adapting to a "new normal." Data for the global picture shows that the pandemic is far from over. Check out DW's weekly statistics update. The Tour de France begins this weekend amid a second wave of the coronavirus. Riders are both confident and skeptical, and virologists have raised concerns. But cycling needs the revenue urgently. Can it work?