With the end of the summer holidays, the number of new SARS-CoV-2 infections is rising again  in many European countries, and Germany is no exception. But despite this, kindergartens, schools and educational institutions are being reopened, partly to take a burden off working parents, but also for the sake of children's welfare. However, those involved in deciding this move —  virologists, doctors, representatives of industry, politicians, teachers and parents' representatives — have very different ideas on how best to resume kindergarten and school operations. Because of this, there has been a failure across Europe in recent months to come up with uniform rules. This is the case in Germany, too. Each German state is responsible for education within its borders, and rules for school operations  after the summer holidays differ considerably among them — and sometimes even from one school to another. Returning to normal – but how? A consensus has been reached on the compulsory wearing of masks, physical distancing, hygiene precautions and fixed study groups as measures to reduce the risk of infection. But how this is to be handled in practice remains a matter of interpretation. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3gMUG The most important regulations at a glance: After the summer holidays, day care centers, schools and educational institutions are to be reopened in all German federal states. Face-to-face teaching is to resume in most cases. States are meant to come up with pragmatic concepts to minimize the risk of infection and to prevent school closures across the board. According to the Standing Conference of the Ministers of Education and Cultural Affairs (KMK), a body that coordinates educational practices at the national level in Germany, "regular operations" are to be organized "against the background of specific local conditions." In other words, the federal states must draw up the rules and regulations themselves. Schools have been instructed to develop comprehensive hygiene concepts. This includes making disinfectants available, cleaning sanitary facilities regularly and ensuring good ventilation in classrooms. A lucky exception: Not all classrooms in Germany have functioning sinks But although this all sounds self-evident and easy to implement, the reality on the ground is often different. For example, many schools suffer from a lack of space, with classrooms that are so small — or classes that are so large — that rules on distancing can hardly be observed. What is more, many classrooms do not have functioning washbowls, sanitary facilities are often in poor condition, many windows cannot be opened for safety reasons and the respective municipalities lack money for overdue renovations. Some federal states want the use of simple face masks  to become mandatory at schools. However, rules vary on who should wear the protective masks and when. Many states require the wearing of masks in corridors or rooms used during breaks, but not during lessons. In addition, primary school children will mostly be exempted from the rule because they are considered incapable of wearing the masks properly and because they rarely contract COVID-19. Elementary school students are exempted from wearing masks because they have difficulties wearing them correctly Other states, such as the most populous one, North Rhine-Westphalia, insist on compulsory masks at all schools. That applies not only in the buildings and throughout the whole school premises, but during lessons as well. There, the obligation to wear masks applies to pupils and teachers if they cannot ensure the recommended minimum distance of 1.5 meters (5 feet) between them. Wherever possible, lessons are to be organized in fixed learning groups to which particular teachers are assigned. These groups are meant to avoid mixing in everyday school life. This is designed to limit the risk of infection and make it possible to isolate just one such learning group if an infection occurs within it. By identifying infection clusters and interrupting infection chains, a large-scale lockdown is to be prevented. That's how things should be — but the reality in many schools is different Although this sounds plausible, it presents schools with enormous difficulties. A high school, for example, is usually organized in a system of comprehensive courses. There are often not enough rooms or teachers to allow face-to-face teaching limited to small groups. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3gTh4 Teachers' and parents' representatives are critical of the planned measures for a return to "normal operations." They advocate a mixture of face-to-face and online teaching. However, they also see a considerable need among many schools, pupils and teachers to bring digital teaching methods up to scratch. In many federal states, teachers are to be offered voluntary, free coronavirus tests before the start of the school year. In the opinion of the Virologists' Association (GfV), teaching staff should have continued easy access to tests after this as well. According to the virologists, students with acute respiratory tract infections should also be given a coronavirus test immediately so that possible clusters can be detected early. If there is a critical increase in new infections toward the end of the year that is partly due to the resumption of school activities, the virologists recommend an extension of the Christmas holidays, especially since "over Christmas there is likely to be a further increase in the risk of infection due to holiday-related travel and family celebrations." A young boy holds his mother's hand from across a barrier as he returns to school for a delayed spring term in Gwangju, South Korea. The government has initiated a phased reopening of schools across the country even as it sees a surge in the number of coronavirus cases in recent days. The image shows classrooms being disinfected by quarantine workers before students enter the premises of a school in Seoul. In the first phase of reopening, high school seniors returned to classes on May 20 for a session that was meant to begin in March this year. Teachers check partition walls installed to ensure students' safety as they return to classrooms in Daegu, South Korea. In late February, the city of Daegu reported the first large coronavirus outbreak outside of China, resulting in a huge spike in South Korea's COVID-19 infections. A school student is putting sanitizer on her hands after coming back to school last week. The second phase of reopening, initiated on June 3, involved students in their first year at high school and second year at middle school and in the third and fourth years in elementary school. Students wait in line as staff conduct temperature checks with a thermal imaging camera in Chungju, South Korea. The latest phase of reopening has brought nearly 1.8 million children back to school. Guidelines mandate that desks are placed in a manner that allows for physical distancing. In many cases, schools are putting up partitions to prevent the spread of the virus. South Korea has seen a resurgence of cases linked to gatherings at night clubs, churches and warehouses in recent days. This has led to the imposition of stricter regulations. Transparent dividers installed at a primary school cafeteria in Chuncheon, South Korea. The Education Ministry said that 519 schools have been forced to go back to remote learning, as government guidelines direct that all students and staff members have to return to distance learning if an infection is confirmed. A physical education class in progress with students wearing masks at a high school in Gwacheon, South Korea. In addition to regular sanitizing and multiple temperature checks between classes, students are required to keep their masks on at all times, except when they are eating. An elementary school student being welcomed by teachers in animal costumes in Daegu. An inordinate amount of pressure for implementation lies on the shoulders of teachers, who must join the students in using an online self-diagnostic system to record their own temperatures before classes. South Korea currently has under 12,000 confirmed cases. Author: Seerat Chabba