An anti-government protest in Thailand's capital Bangkok drew at least 10,000 people on Sunday, police said, making it the largest political demonstration the kingdom has seen in years. The student-led protests began nearly a month ago and have been held on an almost daily basis ever since. Demonstrators are demanding a revised constitution, an end to the harassment of government critics and reforms to the monarchy. The last demand is particularly sensitive in Thailand — anyone criticizing the monarchy faces between 1.5 to 15 years in jail. They also want Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha, who took power in a 2014 military coup, to resign. Read more: Thai protesters call for end of monarchy on king's birthday Protesters used mobile phones as flashlights at a rally calling on the government to resign 'Down with the dictatorship' Crowds of demonstrators shouting "down with the dictatorship" gathered around the capital's symbolic Democracy Monument. Others held dove-shaped cutouts representing peace. Student activist Parit Chiwarak made an appearance at the rally, despite being granted bail on Saturday after being arrested for his pro-democracy work. Flanked by supporters, he held a sign that read: "10-point Monarchy Reform" – referring to a list of demands setting out changes that student protesters want to see implemented. Police were also present, as well as a much smaller group of royalists who support the monarchy. Read more: Life after the tourist trade for Thailand's elephants Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3gnoJ Waves of protests Thailand has experienced multiple coups ever since the army toppled the absolute monarchy in 1932, replacing it with a constitutional monarchy. The government held elections last year but these were seen as rigged, sparking public anger. The latest wave of protests began in February this year after a court ordered the pro-democracy Future Forward Party to disband. The onset of the coronavirus pandemic, however, put a pause on these protests until recently. kmm/mm (AP, AFP, dpa) 