A crowd of protesters gathered outside a gas station in Lafayette, Louisiana on Saturday to demonstrate against the police killing of a Black man named Trayford Pellerin. The shooting took place on Friday and was captured on a video that was widely shared on social media. The incident drew outrage from local civil rights groups, with the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) in Louisiana calling it a "horrific and deadly incident of police violence against a Black person." Saturday's rally attracted around 150 demonstrators, according to the Advocate newspaper, and rocks and water bottles were thrown at police cars and vehicles on the nearby thruway. Officers in riot gear fired smoke canisters on Saturday night to disperse the crowd, police said. Arrests were made, Interim Police Chief Scott Morgan said, but the exact number wasn't immediately available. The image of civil rights leader and congressman John Lewis, who died on July 17, is projected onto the statue of Confederate Robert Lee in Richmond, Virginia. A champion of non-violent protest, he attended the 1963 March on Washington and played a key role in abolishing racial segregation. He famously declared: "Never, ever be afraid to make some noise and get in good trouble, necessary trouble." Amelia Boynton Robinson was a civil rights pioneer who fought for voting rights for African Americans. She helped organize a 5-day civil rights march from the city of Selma to Montgomery in Alabama in March 1965. During the protest, Robinson and others were brutally beaten by state police. Images of what became known as Bloody Sunday went around the world. Thurgood Marshall, pictured here in 1957, was the first African-American justice of the Supreme Court. Announcing his pick, US President Lyndon B. Johnson declared it was "the right thing to do, the right time to do it, the right man and the right place." Marshall, who was born in the city of Baltimore, Maryland, successfully fought against the racial segregation of US schools and universities. Rosa Parks made history, when on December 1, 1955, she refused to give up her bus seat to a white man. Her subsequent arrest sparked the Montgomery bus boycott, led by Martin Luther King. The 385 days of protest proved effective when on November 13, 1956, the Supreme Court upheld a ruling declaring segregated busses unconstitutional in Alabama and Montgomery. Martin Luther King at Memphis' Lorraine Motel, on the day of his killing on April 4, 1968. One day earlier, King famously said: "I just want to do God's will. And He's allowed me to go up to the mountain. And I've looked over. And I've seen the Promised Land." Also pictured (to King's left): Civil rights activist Hosea Williams and Baptist minister Jesse Jackson, to his right, Ralph Abernathy. Andrew Jackson Young was in Memphis, Tennessee, on the day of Martin Luther King’s murder. The politician, civil rights leader, and clergyman had joined King in leading the Southern Christian Leadership Conference. In 1967, President-elect Jimmy Carter nominated Young as the US ambassador to the United Nations. In 1981, he was elected mayor of Atlanta. Malcolm Little, better known as Malcolm X (left), rejected Martin Luther King’s notion of non-violent protest. He was portrayed by actor Denzel Washington (right) in Spike Lee’s 1992 biopic "Malcolm X." Once the African American leader of Nation of Islam, he later abandoned the organization, becoming one of its most fervent critics. He was assassinated on February 21, 1965. Barbara Jordan was the first woman and the first African American keynote speaker at a Democratic National Convention. In 1974, the attorney, legislator, and educator declared in the House of Representatives that "my faith in the Constitution is whole; it is complete; it is total." Ella Fitzgerald, born in a New York suburb in 1917, was not only a jazz but also a civil rights icon. Fitzgerald, who won 13 Grammys and sold some 40 million records, always insisted musicians touring with her be treated equally, regardless of their skin color. She was the first African American woman to perform at Los Angeles’ Mocambo night club after actress Marilyn Monroe publicly backed her. Novelist Alice Walker became involved in the US civil rights movement in the 1960s. She was just 17 when she joined the 1963 March on Washington, where Martin Luther King delivered his famous "I Have a Dream" speech. Walker’s novels feature strong, black women. And her work The Color Purple won a Pulitzer Prize in 1983. Baptist minister Al Sharpton speaking at George Floyd’s funeral service. In 2004, Sharpton was a Democratic candidate for the presidential race. Two years later, in 2006, he led a protest march in honor of Sean Bell, a 23-year-old African American who had been shot dead by police. Al Sharpton is an outspoken and at times controversial activist. US President Barack Obama and first lady Michelle Obama visited a Washington homeless shelter in January 2017, where they helped finish a mural of Martin Luther King. Obama was the first-ever African American to be elected president of the United States. Author: Astrid Prange Louisiana State Police said Lafayette officers responded to a disturbance at a convenience store on Friday and found Pellerin with a knife. The officers followed him on foot as he walked to the Shell station on the opposite side of the thruway. Police said tasers were deployed that were ineffective in stopping him. The officers then shot him as he tried to enter the Shell station convenience store, still with a knife, according to a news release. Interim Police Chief Morgan said the investigation has been handed over to state police, standard procedure in Louisiana for shootings by local officers. The involved officers have been placed on administrative leave with pay pending the outcome of the investigation, Morgan said. The victim's mother, Michelle Pellerin, told the Advocate that she is still trying to wrap her mind around what happened. She described her eldest son as intelligent and shy and said he had sought therapy for social anxiety earlier this year. She said her son may have been frightened by the officers. National civil rights attorney Ben Crump told the newspaper that he and his co-council Ronald Haley had begun their own investigation and may pursue legal action. Haley said he spoke to some witnesses who said Pellerin did not have a knife when he was killed. Crump said that even if the man had a knife the officers were trained for those situations and should have found a non-lethal alternative. "Instead of giving him a helping hand, they gave him bullets," Crump told the Advocate. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3fgWc dv/rc (AP)  