An unconfirmed number of inmates escaped a prison in eastern Afghanistan on Monday morning amid a battle between Islamic State (IS) militants and Afghan security forces that is still ongoing. Three attackers have been killed but the battle continued to rage on Monday, said Attaullah Khogyani, a spokesman for the governor of Nangarhar province. The conflict began Sunday evening when a suicide car bomb was detonated at the entrance to a prison in Jalalabad, the capital of Nangarhar. An unknown number of assailants then opened fire on the prison's security guards. A gun battle ensured, lasting through the night and continuing into the day on Monday. Following the initial assault, Afghan special forces arrived with armored vehicles to provide backup, Nangarthar province officials said. At least 29 people have been killed and over 40 wounded thus far, according to a spokesman for the provincial hospital Zaher Adel. The death toll is expected to rise. Among the dead were civilians, prisoners, guards and Afghan security forces. High number of inmates escape The assailants were able to occupy a nearby residential building, complicating attempts by security forces to bring the situation under control, Khogyani said. A high number of prisoners escaped amid the chaos, forcing security officials to divert their efforts to recapturing them. News agency Reuters reported that at least 75 individuals had broken out. Some 1,500 were inmates are housed in the prison. Several hundred are believed to be members of IS while many others belong to the Taliban, a security source told news agency AFP. Around 700 of the escapees had since been captured, he said. Read more: Was 'IS' trying to sell €1 billion worth of drugs in Europe? The IS affiliate in Afghanistan, known as IS in Khorasan province, claimed responsibility for the attack. It was not immediately clear whether the assault was staged to free specific inmates held in the prison. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3fffw Taliban denies involvement amid ceasefire The attack came a day after the Afghan intelligence agency killed a senior IS group commander near Jalalabad. A spokesman for the Taliban said his group had not been involved in the assault on the prison. "We have a ceasefire and are not involved in any of these attacks anywhere in the country,'' he told news agency AP. The incident took place during a rare three-day ceasefire between the Taliban and the Afghan government marking the Muslim festival of Eid al-Adha. The ceasefire expired at 12 a.m. local time on Monday, but could be extended. The US has pushed to start intra-Afghan negotiations, which have been repeatedly delayed since Washington and the Taliban signed a peace deal in February. Read more: Afghan peace process: Is Washington running out of patience? In the past, Nangarthar province was a base for IS militants, until they were pushed out by both Afghan security forces and the Taliban in recent years. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3arfV kp/rc (AP, dpa, Reuters)  