Washing compulsions are the most common kind of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Sufferers wash their hands more often than the average person — sometimes up to 60 times a day or even more frequently. In addition, their apartments are often kept fastidiously clean, and in very severe cases, they change their clothes several times a day. Before they touch a door handle, they disinfect it, and they often like to keep a good distance from other people. With their actions, people with this kind of OCD  are trying to protect themselves from things like bacteria, viruses or dirt, whose dangers or omnipresence they exaggerate. These hygiene measures are rituals that often reduce anxiety and fear for a short while. But soon, the fears reemerge and everything starts all over again. Before the COVID-19 pandemic, such behavior was often considered strange, abnormal or even crazy by others. But this has now changed. At the moment, we are all being urged to wash our hands as often as possible: if we have touched objects used by others, traveled on public transport or pushed a shopping cart, for example. What was considered unusual before the pandemic is now almost the norm. And this confuses some of the people who suffer from OCD, says Antonia Peters of theGerman Society for Obsessive-Compulsive Disorders (DGZ). "It is incomprehensible to these people that almost everyone is suddenly walking around wearing gloves and a mask. Some people have thoughts like: 'That's used to be my special trademark. Now everybody's doing it,'" she says According to Peters, a number of people with washing compulsions have reported that their compulsion has become stronger due to the pandemic. "They wash even more often and hardly dare to go outside. People who are already suffering from a compulsion for order or control have also been developing an additional washing compulsion," she says. Treating OCD is a long process even at the best of times. Then came the COVID-19 pandemic. "Patients who had already worked on themselves quite successfully in therapy now have the feeling that they have to start all over again and that everything they have learned in their therapy is for nothing," says Peters. It is very difficult for the patients to keep adapting their behavior patterns. In many places, wearing masks is compulsory For people who have been suffering from washing compulsions for years, the pandemic is not only dangerous but can also seem to pose a paradox. In the members' newsletter of the German Society of Compulsive Diseases, one young man wrote of his feeling that society had finally caught up with him and that people were finally realizing that what he had been doing was normal. "All the techniques I used to use are being more or less copied — where are my patent royalties?" he asked. Copper can destroy dangerous germs and viruses Lena Jelinek from the Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf (UKE)  has carried out a study looking at the impact that the pandemic and the new fears and restrictions associated with it have been having on OCD sufferers. The online survey of almost 400 people was designed to find out how people with OCD were faring during the coronavirus pandemic and whether their situation had got worse or better, she says. The scientists conducting the study, which has yet to be published, were partly interested in whether there were differences between people with washing compulsions and people with other forms of OCD, such as obsessions with order or control. "More than two-thirds of the respondents said that they noticed that their compulsive symptoms were getting worse," says Jelinek. "And among those with washing compulsions, the deterioration was even more severe." Successes in therapy are often destroyed by the coronavirus In a first evaluation of the Hamburg study, the scientists found that compulsive symptoms had decreased in less than 7% of the participants. There is also a concern that the pandemic may cause many people to develop an OCD in the first place. Some 2 million people in Germany suffer from one of the different forms of OCD, and the number of unreported cases is high. There are those who have a counting compulsion and thus count the steps every time they climb the stairs, those who have a compulsion to keep order, and those who hoard everything and can't throw anything away. Whether such behavior is considered a mere quirk or as an illness depends more on quantity than quality, says Jelinek. "It is partly a question of how much time I am spending on compulsive behavior each day, but also whether I feel anxiety or discomfort when I do not perform a particular action or perform it differently than usual," she says. People with control compulsion check again and again whether, for example, the stove is switched off OCD is a taboo subject. Many of those affected are ashamed of their illness and keep it a secret from others. It does not matter what kinds of compulsive acts are involved. For example, people who suffer from a compulsion for control repeatedly check whether a stove is really switched off or that the front door is locked. "There is no real danger," explains Jelinek. "People know in a purely rational sense that they have turned off the stove, but they often no longer trust their own perceptions. A patient may well come to me with his toaster in his backpack and say: 'I wasn't sure whether it was really turned off or not.'" Always a little bit more ... OCD develops insidiously, with many factors playing a role in its formation, including family predispositions. About a quarter of all cases of OCD arise in childhood. Drastic experiences, an unusual situation or a difficult phase of life can also be the first trigger for an OCD. "Perhaps parents have separated or a relative, close relative or close friend has died. A person's upbringing can also have an influence on whether an OCD develops," Peters says. Having an OCD often leads to loneliness Interestingly, some people who took part in the study felt that they were actually doing better at the moment despite the fact that most of them were experiencing a worsening of their compulsions. "I feel like I'm finally being understood. I am finally being taken more seriously. Many people I know suddenly have fears. That is why I no longer feel so alone," is how Jelinek quotes some of the participants in the study. "They describe it as 'Welcome to my world!' and say: 'What you are experiencing right now is what my life has been like for many, many years,'" she says. The practice of hand-shaking has been around for more than 2,000 years. It was documented in the times of antiquity, as portrayed on this ancient Greek flask. But the ancient Greeks, who thought illness was related to a imbalance of humors in the body and represented punishment from the gods, never made a connection between hand-shaking and disease. Hand-shaking is believed to originate in how, for two strangers meeting for the first time, approaching each other with open right hands demonstrates a lack of weapons. On a neurochemical level, a proper handshake can release chemicals in the brain including the bonding hormone oxytocin, which can promote harmony and friendship. But researchers have found it's a significant way to spread disease. Not only does hand-shaking pass along germs, it carries unspoken meaning - yet this can vary by culture. A firm handshake is positively perceived to show decisiveness in Western societies, while Eastern societies generally prefer weaker or "limp" handshakes to prevent imparting a sense of dominance. Regardless, whenever you shake hands, you come away with more than just a lasting impression. Hand-shaking can transmit viruses like the cold or flu, parasites like scabies, and bacteria such as Staphylococcus (pictured above). Someone who has a cold could wipe their dripping nose, leaving mucus teeming with rhinovirus on that person's hand. When you shake hands with them and then touch your eye, you can catch that infection. Still eager to shake hands? One surefire way to prevent the spread of disease, including through handshakes, is to wash your hands with warm water and soap on a regular basis. But many people simply don't bother: In one observational study, only two-thirds of men washed their hands after using a public restroom. Which might make you ask yourself: Do I actually want to shake hands with the next stranger I meet? Prominent figures - including Bill Gates and Donald Trump - reportedly simply do not shake hands due to the disease factor. A person who is hand-shaking phobic could always carry around a small bottle of hand-sanitizer and constantly use it. But that person runs the risk of seeming obsessive and strange. Although there are some proposals for alternatives to shaking hands … A recent study proposed banning handshakes from healthcare settings altogether. Hospitals could be made into handshake-free zones, for example. As more people come to understand the link between the handshake and the spread of disease, the "anti-handshake" movement even seems to be gaining momentum. But what could replace the glorious gesture? A study has shown that exchanging greetings via fist bump, or a brief touch between the outer portions of two fists, transmits 90 percent fewer infectious organisms than the handshake. And with people like Barack and Michelle Obama setting the example, perhaps that could become the next big thing. Author: Sonya Diehn