For the third time in under 35 years, thieves broke into a small Dutch art museum and made off with a painting by Dutch Golden Age master Frans Hals, police said on Thursday. The artwork, titled "Two Laughing Boys," dates from 1626 and depicts two jovial youths with a large mug of beer. The painting was stolen from the Hofje van Mevrouw van Aerden museum in the town of Leerdam in the early hours of Wednesday morning. "Around 3:30 a.m. the alarm went off, and agents went straight to the museum," police said in a statement. Officers were unable to locate the suspects, but noted that they'd likely broken into the small museum using the back door. "After the museum's manager could grant access to the area and building, it emerged that the back door had been forced open and one painting had been stolen," the statement read. Scientists who started analyzing the painting by the Dutch artist in 2018 found that the background hadn't always been black: Vermeer painted a green curtain that had darkened over time. They also discovered that the girl has thin eyelashes that cannot be seen with the naked eye. Unfortunately, the researchers could not solve the mystery of the women's identity. Originally, the artist painted cupid into the work in the spot where we now see a green curtain. That the hidden messenger of love existed has been known since 1979, however, in 2019 a museum in Dresden discovered that Vermeer had not painted the green curtain himself and decided it should be removed to reveal the cherub once more. Most of the iconography in this vibrant work is not fully understood by scholars. The burning candle on the chandelier, for example, suggests that the wedding was a Christian marriage. The dog could be a symbol of marital fidelity. But who are the two figures reflected in the mirror on the back wall? Are they witnesses to the ceremony or is one, perhaps, the painter himself? According to Vatican researcher Sabrina Sforza Galitzia, there's a secret puzzle in the famous painting, predicting that the end of the world will happen in 4006. What's more, composer Giovanni Maria Pala says he found musical notation encoded in the work, with the hands of Jesus and the apostles and the loaves of bread representing different notes. Da Vinci was known to write musical riddles. The true identity of the sitter in this iconic work may be one of the greatest mysteries of art history. Who is the woman also known as "La Gioconda"? How did da Vinci manage to make her seem to follow the viewer with her gaze? Whoever she was, her image was once stolen from the museum in 1911 by an Italian waiter who dressed himself as a Louvre janitor and took the painting to Florence. Although the technique of looking into a mirror while painting a self-portrait was common, it was highly unusual for an artist to actively paint the mirror into the painting. Why Gumpp did this is unknown. Scholars have also pondered a significance between his decision to include three images of himself. Could it, perhaps, be a reference to the Holy Trinity? In this scene in the Spanish court it is unclear who is the subject, object, spectator and model. Although they stand together, the figures appear isolated in their own worlds. Many mysteries remain: Does the mirror in the background reflect the image of the Spanish royal couple who have come to observe or is it simply a reflection of what is on the artist's easel? If you look closely, you will discover another silhouette above the head of the man playing guitar in the painting. Researchers found that it is part of a painting underneath the one that meets the eye. Presumably, Picasso painted over an old canvas, but did not completely cover the woman's head. The work hails from Picasso's Blue Period in the early 20th century. In this painting, the German artist portrayed his 11-year-old daughter, Betty, without showing her face. He thereby created a fascinating (anti)portrait: No matter how long you look, Betty won't turn around. The work is often mistaken for a photograph at first glance; Richter made it a bit blurry, as an out-of-focus snapshot would be. Author: Verena Greb (sh) Read more:  Art theft: 'There is always a risk for museums' "Two Laughing Boys" has already been stolen from the museum before — most recently in 2011 and in 1988. The first time, it took police three years to recover the centuries-old work. In 2011 police were able to track it down after six months when the burglars tried to sell it. One art expert estimated "Two Laughing Boys" is worth €15 million ($18 million), Dutch broadcaster RTL Nieuws reported. "Criminals know that major museums have sufficient security," the expert told RTL, adding that smaller regional museums tend to have fewer security measures. "They probably concluded it's worth a lot of money, and it's relatively easy to steal." It's the second painting to be stolen from a Dutch museum that was closed due to COVID-19 measures. In March, thieves stole a Vincent van Gogh painting  called "Parsonage Garden at Nuenen in Spring" from a museum located east of Amsterdam. The theft occurred on what would have been van Gogh's 167th birthday. Frans Hals was a contemporary of fellow Dutch masters Rembrandt van Rijn and Vermeer in the 17th century. He was born in the 1580s in Antwerp and moved as a child to the city of Haarlem. He's best known for his painting "The Laughing Cavalier" and several life-size group portraits.  