Just five days after South Korean President Moon Jae-in declared that the nation had "surmounted" the coronavirus crisis, new cases of the illness are once again spiking to five-month highs. Epidemiologists have warned that the nation's healthcare system – particularly in Seoul and the surrounding region – is in danger of collapsing. Addressing the nation on Saturday, the 75th anniversary of Korea's liberation at the end of World War II, Moon said, "We have also overcome the COVID-19 crisis through the government, individuals, medical professionals and business leaders trusting and relying on each other," adding that Korea's response to the crisis had been "lauded by the entire world." Read more: Coronavirus digest: South Korean capital struggles to contain new outbreak The government's optimism was fueled by a mere 56 cases being reported across the country on August 13, ahead of one of the most important holiday weekends on the South Korean calendar. On Sunday, however, hospitals were faced with 279 new infections, the first time that the national figure had topped the 200 level since the early days of the crisis in early March. To date, there have been a total of more than 16,000 infections and 306 fatalities. The figure has continued to climb and hit a five-month high of 297 infections on Wednesday. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3hCSR "We had been doing so well but it looks as if we relaxed too soon," said Ahn Yinhay, a professor at Korea University in Seoul. "I think that so many people wanted to get out over the holiday weekend, people have been given coupons by the government to go to shops, the cinema and restaurants to give the economy a boost and they thought it was safe again," she told DW. "There were also huge demonstrations against the government in central Seoul over the weekend, while there are a number of churches that have also been linked to clusters of infections because people did not want to wear masks or follow social distancing guidelines," she said. "I also think that young people have become bored with the rules and they do not think that it will affect them, so they are going out again and meeting their friends," the expert added. "And yes, they may be more resistant to the virus, but they are spreading it and making their elderly relatives seriously ill." Read more: South Korean FM on the coronavirus: 'We have to live with this risk' The government announced the reintroduction of enhanced social distancing guidelines on Wednesday in an effort to halt the spread of the illness in a nation of 51.6 million, including bans on outdoor gatherings of more than 100 people and 50 if an event is indoors. Baseball matches are being played in empty stadiums and high-risk venues – such as karaoke bars, PC cafes and buffet restaurants – have been ordered to shut down. The concern among experts, however, is that this second wave of infections has already taken a firm grip on the country. A young boy holds his mother's hand from across a barrier as he returns to school for a delayed spring term in Gwangju, South Korea. The government has initiated a phased reopening of schools across the country even as it sees a surge in the number of coronavirus cases in recent days. The image shows classrooms being disinfected by quarantine workers before students enter the premises of a school in Seoul. In the first phase of reopening, high school seniors returned to classes on May 20 for a session that was meant to begin in March this year. Teachers check partition walls installed to ensure students' safety as they return to classrooms in Daegu, South Korea. In late February, the city of Daegu reported the first large coronavirus outbreak outside of China, resulting in a huge spike in South Korea's COVID-19 infections. A school student is putting sanitizer on her hands after coming back to school last week. The second phase of reopening, initiated on June 3, involved students in their first year at high school and second year at middle school and in the third and fourth years in elementary school. Students wait in line as staff conduct temperature checks with a thermal imaging camera in Chungju, South Korea. The latest phase of reopening has brought nearly 1.8 million children back to school. Guidelines mandate that desks are placed in a manner that allows for physical distancing. In many cases, schools are putting up partitions to prevent the spread of the virus. South Korea has seen a resurgence of cases linked to gatherings at night clubs, churches and warehouses in recent days. This has led to the imposition of stricter regulations. Transparent dividers installed at a primary school cafeteria in Chuncheon, South Korea. The Education Ministry said that 519 schools have been forced to go back to remote learning, as government guidelines direct that all students and staff members have to return to distance learning if an infection is confirmed. A physical education class in progress with students wearing masks at a high school in Gwacheon, South Korea. In addition to regular sanitizing and multiple temperature checks between classes, students are required to keep their masks on at all times, except when they are eating. An elementary school student being welcomed by teachers in animal costumes in Daegu. An inordinate amount of pressure for implementation lies on the shoulders of teachers, who must join the students in using an online self-diagnostic system to record their own temperatures before classes. South Korea currently has under 12,000 confirmed cases. Author: Seerat Chabba Jung Eun-kyeong, the director of the Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said Monday that the country is facing a "collapse of the health system" if measures to halt the spread of the virus are not taken urgently. The risk of infection "has extended beyond high-risk establishments to lurk in everyday places, such as restaurants, cafes, bars and grocery stores," she said, adding that "there could be a larger share of individuals with minimal or no symptoms who are going undetected." And while there have been clusters of cases linked to coffee shops, schools and distribution centers, much of the blame has been aimed at churches and religious leaders who have defied requests from the government and health authorities to restrict face-to-face services and ensure that members of their congregations maintain a safe distance from each other. Of all the religious groups coming in for scrutiny, the Sarang Jeil Church is very much in the spotlight after 623 members were confirmed to be infected with the virus as of Wednesday evening, up from just 166 one day earlier. Nearly 3,300 followers have been tested, although health authorities have confirmed that they have not been able to locate 400 individuals who have recently attended services. Read more: South Korea church leader arrested over coronavirus outbreak Jun Kwang-hoon, the pastor of the church, has led street rallies against the government's restrictions and demanded that his followers be guaranteed religious freedom. On Sunday, thousands of people protested in central Seoul's Gwanghwamun Square, many of them not wearing masks. Jun has this week been diagnosed with the virus. As a result of the resistance to requests to follow the rules, churches in Seoul have been ordered to halt all in-person services until the end of August and, after Sarang Jeil officials refused to provide health authorities with a list of its followers, the Seoul city government filed a criminal complaint against Jun for "wasting administrative resources and budget by evading, lying or disobeying during screening and tracing procedures." David Tizzard, an assistant professor at Seoul Women's University and a commentator on social issues, said many South Koreans have become "frustrated" in the extended lockdown. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3bjrr "They are frustrated when they go out and see other people behaving carelessly and not upholding the social contract on thinking about the health of those around them," Tizzard told DW. "While the other issue is that it is the summer holidays here now and everyone wants to get away for a few days. They are creatures of habit, like people anywhere, and they want to go on holiday to the beach just as they have done every summer for years. They are looking for normality at a very abnormal time." Read more: Spike in South Korean infections linked to one man’s night out Professor Ahn says she is taking all the precautions she can so she does not catch or spread the virus among her family and friends, but she is very concerned that this "second wave" is a harbinger of an even more serious time when the autumn sets in and both the coronavirus and seasonal flu are spreading. "The health system is at risk of being overwhelmed," she said. "If things do get worse, then it could take the nation, the economy years to fully recover. People have to understand that they need to take precautions now because going back to our previous lives right now is too early and much too dangerous."  