Instead of large-scale and centralized celebrations, the government this year has opted for smaller ceremonies across the country to mark India's Independence Day. The reason behind it is the coronavirus pandemic, which has taken a heavy toll on the country's society and economy. The coronavirus infection rate in India has been rapidly rising since the government began to ease lockdown restrictions in mid-May. The country has so far registered close to 2.5 million COVID-19 cases and over 48,000 related deaths. India has the third-largest coronavirus caseload in the world, which is behind only the United States and Brazil. The World Health Organization (WHO) has praised New Delhi's response to the pandemic, but India is still far from containing the coronavirus spread. Physical distancing measures are still in place in many parts of the country and large gatherings could result in even higher infections. Facemasks, social distancing and virtual events thus mark this year's Independence Day celebrations on August 15. Read more: Coronavirus in India: Is public negligence causing surge in cases?   Scaled-down festivities Authorities have issued multiple public guidelines to ensure that the celebrations will not cause a spike in cases. They have urged citizens to celebrate Independence Day at home and avoid risking their safety by stepping out unless it is absolutely necessary. On August 15, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will participate in a relatively small ceremony at Delhi's famous Red Fort and will address the nation soon after. Only 250 guests will attend the ceremony. According to local media, around 350 police officials from Delhi will take part in the ceremony after having spent time in quarantine to reduce the risk of infection. Read more: India's aspirations 70 years ago and now At the August 13 rehearsal, Indian soldiers held a parade by keeping a safe distance from each other. They also wore face masks that matched the color of their uniforms — khaki, olive green, blue and white, showcasing the three components of the Indian military – the army, the airforce and the navy, respectively. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3gQwC In previous years, thousands of schoolchildren participated in the Red Fort ceremony, but only a limited number of schoolchildren are allowed to be at the venue this year. As schools are closed due to the pandemic, schoolchildren will get an opportunity to participate in online celebrations. "We have held online activities for students throughout the week," Sapna Dhawan, a dean at the Delhi Public School in Gurgaon, told DW. "We'll have a virtual flag hoisting event, followed by our principal's address. We'll also show a video, which has been put together remotely by students," Dhawan added. Race against time In a recent interview with DW, Poonam Khetrapal Singh, the WHO's regional director for Southeast Asia, praised India's efforts to deal with the coronavirus pandemic considering its huge and diverse population. "India took bold decisions such as screening people at ports of entries, tracing contacts, training health workers, scaling up testing capacities, preparing health facilities and engaging with communities," Singh said. "The early nationwide lockdown helped authorities scale up healthcare facilities. The decision to produce protective gear locally to meet the ongoing and future needs for medical supplies showed the country was geared for the long haul," she added. Read more: Why is India denying COVID-19 community transmission? Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3gJ8A Despite these praiseworthy measures, India faces a big challenge to deal with the pandemic. Indian authorities don't want to take any risk as the country's economy is undergoing a difficult phase. IHS Markit chief economist Rajiv Biswas told DW that protected lockdowns amid resurgent coronavirus infections will continue to hit the Indian economy in the months ahead. Biswas, however, said that vaccine investment provides a glimmer of hope. Last month, India's top health agency said that the country should have a coronavirus vaccine ready in time for Independence Day. Balram Bhargava, the director of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), ordered 12 hospitals to begin clinical trials of India's coronavirus candidate vaccine, Covaxin. Bhargava's order came as a surprise, and India's scientific community stressed that the extraordinarily short time line is unfeasible. Some experts interpreted the ICMR diktat as being a political ploy for PM Modi to win points by being able to announce an Indian vaccine to the nation during his Independence Day speech. Following public outcry, the ICMR sought to backtrack and clarify its comments, saying that the August date was "not a deadline" and was merely an attempt to cut "red tape" and not an attempt to compromise on safety trials. Read more: Sex workers in India find new ways to earn amid coronavirus pandemic In 1947, British India was divided into two countries - India and Pakistan. Pakistan's founder Mohammad Ali Jinnah and his All-India Muslim League party had first demanded autonomy for Muslim-majority areas in the undivided India, and only later a separate country for Muslims. Jinnah believed that Hindus and Muslims could not continue to live together, as they were distinctly different "nations." The partition of British India was extremely violent. Following the birth of India and Pakistan, violent communal riots began in many western areas, mostly in Punjab. Historians say that more than a million people died in clashes, and millions more migrated from Indian territory to Pakistan and from the Pakistani side to India. India and Pakistan clashed over Kashmir soon after their independence. The Muslim-majority Kashmir region was ruled by a Hindu leader, but Jinnah wanted it to be part of Pakistani territory. Indian and Pakistani troops fought in Kashmir in 1948, with India taking control of most part of the valley, while Pakistan occupied a smaller area. India and Pakistan continue to clash over Kashmir. Liberal historians say that Jinnah and Mahatma Gandhi wanted cordial ties between newly independent states. Jinnah, for instance, believed that ties between India and Pakistan should be similar to those between the US and Canada. But after his death in 1948, his successors followed a collision course with New Delhi. Indian and Pakistani governments present very different accounts of the partition. While India emphasizes the Indian National Congress' freedom movement against British rulers - with Gandhi as its main architect - Pakistani textbooks focus on a "struggle" against both British and Hindu "oppression." State propaganda in both countries paints each other as an "enemy" that cannot be trusted. Diplomatic ties between India and Pakistan have remained acrimonious for the past seven decades. The issue of Islamist terrorism has marred relations in the last few years, with New Delhi accusing Islamabad of backing Islamist jihadists to wage a war in India-administered Kashmir. India also blames Pakistan-based groups for launching terror attacks on Indian soil. Islamabad denies these claims. Many young people in both India and Pakistan are urging their governments to improve bilateral ties. Islamabad-based documentary filmmaker Wajahat Malik believes the best way for India and Pakistan to develop a closer relationship is through more interaction between their peoples. "Trade and tourism are the way forward for us. When people come together, the states will follow suit," Malik told DW. Author: Shamil Shams