It's no coincidence that an NBA basketball team spurned a massive boycott across American sports. Unlike other professional sports leagues in the United States, the NBA has long condoned players using their platforms to participate in social discourse. It took the unprecedented step of actively promoting the Black Lives Matter movement when play resumed at Walt Disney World in Orlando, Florida. So when a 29-year-old black man named Jacob Blake was shot multiple times by a police officer in front of his three sons in Wisconsin, it was no surprise that the local basketball team, the Milwaukee Bucks, were the first to act. The Bucks decision not to take the floor against the Orlando Magic for a playoff game not only led to more than a dozen other game postponements across US sports, but was also "wholeheartedly" endorsed by team ownership. Though the league's first-ever boycott has put an already delayed season in jeopardy, the fact remains that the NBA remains one of the only platforms in sports where pushing for social change is welcome. DW's Davis VanOpdorp Return with meaning For many basketball players in the NBA, returning to play in July from a coronavirus-induced hiatus was never only about basketball. Some players expressed concerns that a season restart, though critical for the league financially, would overshadow important discourse in US society over the police killings of Breonna Taylor and George Floyd. So amid massive anti-racism demonstrations in the United States over the police killing of George Floyd, the world's biggest basketball league allowed its players to use its large platform to promote social change. "Black Lives Matter" has been prominently displayed in every arena used as part of the Orlando restart. Players have personalized messages — such as "Equality," "Liberation," and "Love Us" — on the back of their jerseys. Such a league-wide display of solidarity with a social issue is rarely seen in sports. And when the players on Wednesday wanted to express that such messages weren't enough, the league has so far not stood in their way. There are limits to the NBA’s progressive nature. After a board of governors meeting on Thursday, the league maintained that the season would finish, though some players — including Lebron James, according to US reports — were in favor canceling the rest of the playoffs. But, like the Milwaukee Bucks ownership, the NBA fully stood behind their players on Thursday. Teams even shared on social media the publicly listed phone numbers and emails of the district attorney and mayor of Kenosha, where Jacob Blake was shot, for fans to voice their complaints. The NBA's approach to social issues hasn't always been perfect. Last year, the Houston Rockets distanced themselves from remarks made by its general manager, Darryl Morrey, supporting pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong, which led Chinese broadcasters to bar the team's games. But even in that instance, NBA commissioner Adam Silver said the league's role wasn't to "regulate" its players, coaches, and executives. With its willingness to confront racial justice and to allow, and even encourage, players to stand for what they believe, the NBA sets itself apart from many of the world's top sports leagues. US basketball teams in the NBA boycotted their playoff games out of protest against the police shooting of Jacob Blake in Kenosha, Wisconsin. Women players in the WNBA followed with their own protest, as did players from Major League Baseball. After the first game in Major League Soccer went ahead as planned on Wednesday, the remaining five scheduled contests were postponed. MLS players have shown solidarity with the Black Lives Matter movement since the league resumed play at the beginning of July. Two-time Grand Slam winner Naomi Osaka withdrew from a WTA tennis event in New York ahead of next month's US Open, leading the tournament to pause indefinitely. "As a Black woman I feel as though there are much more important matters at hand that need immediate attention, rather than watching me play tenns," Japanese tennis star Naomi Osaka said in a statement posted on Twitter. Since resuming its season, the NBA has demonstrated solidarity with the "Black Lives Matter" movement. All participants have been wearing shirts or sweatshirts bearing the slogan and have been kneeling before tipoff. Los Angeles Lakers superstar LeBron James (second from right) points to the sky in recognition of the victims of police brutality. The originator of the "take a knee" protest is ex-NFL star Colin Kaepernick (center). He first knelt during the US national anthem to protest police violence against African Americans. President Donald Trump voiced his outrage over the protest, and Kaepernick couldn't find another team after his 49ers release. "I wish we had listened earlier to Kaep," NFL commissioner Roger Godell said recently. After the death of 46-year-old Black man George Floyd at the hands of Minneapolis police in May, the "Black Lives Matter" movement spread outside to sports outside the US. Bundesliga football players have displayed their solidarity, such as Bayern Munich players Thomas Müller (left) and Alphonso Davies (right) before a game against Leverkusen in June. SGS Essen player Nicole Anyomi celebrated a goal against Tribune Potsdam with a "take a knee" pose. "We are in 2020 and racism and injustice still prevails," Anyomi told DW. "We have to be active and raise our voice and speak out. If something happens you can't just stand by, look on and say nothing." The English Premier League paused 100 days due to the coronavirus pandemic. When the players were finally allowed to return to the empty stadiums, they too sent a clear signal against racism, like during this game between Aston Villa and Sheffield United. Protests against police brutality towards Black people also took place in many other sports worldwide. The West Indies cricket team knelt before a test match in Manchester against England. Formula One world champion Lewis Hamilton never gets tired of reminding his colleagues that just showing solidarity, like before the 70th Anniversary Grand Prix — is not enough. "Your silence is still deafening," Hamilton wrote on his Instagram page in June. "You may not be racist in your silence but we need you to be ANTI-racist." Hamilton's Mercedes team is driving black cars this season. When Bayern Munich won the Champions League to complete their treble, David Alaba (left) used the opportunity to make a religious and political statement. The front of his sleeveless T-shirt read "My strength lies with Jesus," and on the back "Black Lives Still Matter." Author: Stefan Nestler