In Germany, the number of deaths from coronavirus is relatively low for the number of confirmed infections. The rate is lower than in Italy, where the number of deaths linked to confirmed Covid-19 infections remains extremely high. Currently, the rate in Germany is at 0.4 percent, with data from the Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, USA, suggesting the rate is 20 times higher in Italy. The World Health Organization (WHO) says various factors can contribute to such discrepancies. First, there's the "population pyramid" or distribution of age and gender in a given country. Then there's the medical or healthcare capacities of each country. And last but not least, the number of people who are tested for coronavirus, because knowing and recording exactly who has been infected will directly influence the validity of any published figures. In some countries, supplementary tests are carried out on the dead. And that would influence the statistics as well. Who gets tested? An economist, Andreas Backhaus, has tweeted that the average age of coronavirus cases in Italy was 63 years and in Germany 45 years of age (at the time of his post). That may be explained if, in Italy, fewer younger people, who presented with mild symptoms, were tested for coronavirus than in Germany. Those cases would not appear in the number of overall infections. And that would influence the death rate, because only the severely ill would be visible. In Italy, a report in the national newspaper, Corriere della Sera, suggests there may be a high number of unreported cases in the country, both among infections and those people who are dying following an infection. In South Korea, it's the exact opposite. Authorities there have tested significantly more people for Covid-19 than other countries. And the estimated death rate in South Korea is extremely low. Read more:Corona confusion: How to make sense of the numbers and terminology Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3a8DK Population pyramid The average age of a population can also play a role here. Older people are at high risk of contracting the coronavirus as they often have pre-existing health conditions. That can make it easier for a virus to overcome a person's immune system — certainly easier than is with otherwise healthy people, who are often also young. Our immune defences weaken as we get older, our immune systems become less effective, and that puts us at greater risk of infectious diseases. But that doesn't fully explain the significant differences between Germany and Italy because the population pyramid in both countries is similar. In 2018, the median age in Germany was 46.0 years and in Italy it was 46.3 years. This factor may play a larger role for countries in Sub-Saharan Africa, where median ages are lower. That's true for Chad, for example, where the median age is 16 years. Timing of the epidemic The course of the epidemic could provide a further explanation for the difference in death rates. In those countries that have been especially hard-hit by the outbreak — such as Italy and Spain — the epidemic appeared earlier than in Germany. And as it takes time from the first moment of infection to the point at which a severely ill patient dies, the death rate among confirmed cases is likely to rise as we get to the end of the epidemic. Several scientists have said that Germany has yet to reach its own peak of the epidemic, and once it does, we could see higher rates of mortality here as well. Read more: What you need to know about the coronavirus Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3a2bH The health of a healthcare system The most important question, however, is how well a country's healthcare system is prepared for an outbreak, such as the coronavirus, and whether it can succeed in "flattening the curve." The idea here is to reduce the likelihood of any sudden spikes in the infection and death rates by keeping numbers stable as a virus spreads through a population. It's possible, for instance, to reduce the number of deaths of severely ill coronavirus patients with the help of respirators, or ventilator machines. So, it's important that there are enough hospital beds in intensive care and access to such machines. If there are too few intensive care beds and ventilators for artificial respiration, it's likely that those patients who don't get that care will be at higher risk of dying. And on that point alone, there are huge differences between Germany and Italy. The Italian population is about 60 million people. At the start of the epidemic there were about 5000 beds in intensive care there. Germany has a population of about 80 million and 28,000 beds in intensive care. And it's said that the number of intensive care beds will be doubled soon. Worldwide, the number of available intensive care beds is a varied story. In Germany, there 29 beds per 100,000 people. In the USA there are 34 beds per 100,000 people. In Italy there are just 12 and in Spain just 10 intensive care beds per 100,000 people. It's notable, though, that South Korea, which seems to have slowed the spread of Covid-19 with mass testing and strict isolation measures, has 10.6 intensive care beds per 100,000 people. South Korea has enforced strict quarantine rules and kept the curve flat from early on. The country has only 10,000 cases of infection. Italy has eight times as many and Spain six times as many infections - at this point. As long as the pandemic continues, it seems these huge differences in numbers of infections and death rates will appear from country to country and continent to continent. Only once the worst of it has passed, will it be possible to generate reasonably reliable statistics. Courage, curiosity or complete hubris? Probably it is a mixture of all these things that causes many scientists to test their own inventions on themselves first. According to the Global Times, a Chinese doctor not only developed an oral vaccine against the SARS-CoV-2 but also tried it out himself. So far without side effects. Scientific knowledge and private pleasure can go hand in hand. The British chemist Sir Humphry Davy experimented with nitrous oxide between 1795 and 1798. With the help of his self-experiments, he discovered not only the pain-relieving effect of the gas but also its intoxicating qualities. The German physicist Johann Wilhelm Ritter not only discovered ultraviolet radiation in 1801, but also invented the first battery the following year. Ritter was also interested in galvanism — a term applied to muscle contractions caused by electric shocks. The fact that he died at the age of 33 is said to have been due in part to the galvanic self-experiments with which he maltreated his body. The Austrian psychologist and doctor Sigmund Freud is known as the founder of psychoanalysis. His methods are still used, discussed and criticized today. Less well known is that Freud researched the effects of cocaine during his time as a doctor at the Vienna General Hospital. Published letters show that Freud himself consumed coke for a long time and in large quantities. "I believe that I am on the trail of the true pathogen," wrote the American physician Jesse Lazear on September 8, 1900, in a letter to his wife. Lazear researched malaria and yellow fever. He confirmed that the latter is transmitted by mosquitoes. To study the disease, he intentionally allowed himself to be stung, fell ill and died 17 days after writing the letter. Lazear was only 34 years old. John Paul Stapp became known as the "fastest man on earth" because of his research on the effects of acceleration forces on the human body — including his own: He had himself accelerated on a so-called rocket sled up to more than 1,000 kph (621 mph) and decelerated completely in 1.4 seconds. It is the highest acceleration that a human being has ever voluntarily withstood. Werner Forssmann was already considered a troublemaker during his medical training. The German surgeon was determined to prove that a long, flexible catheter could be inserted safely from the crook of the arm to the heart. Although his superiors had expressly forbidden him to carry out the experiment, in 1929 Forssmann was the first person to try it out — on himself. Secretly, of course. The Canadian physician Ralph Steinman fell ill with pancreatic cancer and underwent an immunotherapy he developed himself. According to his physician, this therapy was unable to prevent Steinman's death, but — contrary to the prognosis — could possibly have prolonged his life by over four years. Steinman died in 2011, a few days before the Nobel Prize was awarded, which he received posthumously. Author: Julia Vergin (fs)