Most governments strongly advise their citizens to avoid travel and postpone their plans indefinitely. Tour operators are canceling their offers, and airlines are cancelling flights along with international connections. TUI, the world's largest tourism group, is suspending almost all its regular operations.   The most important question is no longer where can holidaymakers still travel to, but how can they get back home. What do travelers from Germany have to take into account? The first port of call for questions from tourists from Germany is the Foreign Ministry website. It provides up-to-date travel and safety information about the risks in the various destinations. Until now, the German government had only advised against travelling to a few countries that are particularly affected by the coronavirus. Now the recommendation applies to all trips abroad, because it is becoming increasingly difficult to return to Germany. "The risk that you will no longer be able to make your return journey due to increasing restrictions is currently high in many destinations," Federal Foreign Minister Heiko Maas wrote on Sunday evening (March 15, 2020) on Twitter to explain the reasoning for the decision. The website of the Federal Foreign Ministry continues to state that further drastic restrictions on air and tourist traffic, quarantine measures and the restriction of public life in many countries are to be expected. Changes to the entry and quarantine regulations would in some cases be made without any prior notice and with immediate effect. Many travellers in several countries are currently affected and prevented from travelling on or returning home. Zurich Airport is also unusually quiet at the moment due to the corona virus Are travelers from Europe entitled to claim reimbursement and compensation? In the event of flight cancellations or if a tour operator cancels a package tour on their own initiative, customers will be reimbursed the full price. However, there is no general right to additional compensation if the providers can point to exceptional circumstances due to the virus. If the flight or trip has not already been cancelled by the provider, travelers can also choose to cancel themselves. If they can cite exceptional circumstances, they do not pay anything. This does not necessarily mean that a travel warning or entry restriction has to be issued: Even if a package tour is significantly impeded or impaired, those affected can cancel free of charge, for example because major sights or routes are blocked locally, which could not be foreseen before the booking was made. Mere prudence or fear of infection is not enough to justify a cancellation of a trip. In such cases, travelers have to rely on the goodwill of their provider if they do not want to be left with the cost of cancellation. Tourism has slumped worldwide Individual travelers find it more difficult to get their various bookings, for example of accommodation and transport, refunded. If services have been booked directly in the country of travel, the only way to obtain reimbursement is to contact the respective contract partner. "If you do not want to travel, even though free cancellation is not possible, you should seek an amicable goodwill solution," is the advice issued by ADAC, the German automobile association. German rail operator Deutsche Bahn is expanding the possibilities for customers to postpone or cancel their journey. "The goodwill arrangements will apply in the coming weeks, so it is not necessary to contact us immediately," the company emphasized. Refunds can also be submitted after the booked day of travel. For all tickets purchased by March 13 with travel dates between March 13 and April 30, passengers can postpone their journey and use the ticket as a flexible fare for the booked route until June 30. For the discounted "Sparpreise" economy price and "Supersparpreise" tickets, the train connection is voided. What do travelers who come from another continent have to be aware of? Again, it is best to contact your own foreign ministry or embassy to find out whether there are any general restrictions or limitations, for example regarding the accessibility of places of interest. The Australian government, for example, advises its citizens to reconsider any overseas travel, especially because of the risk of infection and unpredictable restrictions caused by the coronavirus in the targeted area. The US government is calling on American citizens to reconsider all planned trips abroad. Even countries that have not yet registered any confirmed cases of COVID-19 infections may impose travel restrictions without prior warning. In its travel advice, the State Department raised the overall level of travel warnings to three out of four. Level three states that trips should be reconsidered. The highest level four warns against traveling to these areas. What does the World Health Organization (WHO) advise? Face masks do not protect against infection unless you are infected yourself, says the WHO People with pre-existing conditions should postpone or avoid planned travel to regions with an increased risk of infection, especially older people suffering from chronic illness. In addition, the WHO recommends following the generally accepted hygiene guidelines: wash your hands frequently, cough into the crook of your arm or handkerchief, and avoid touching your face. What do travelers have to consider when returning home? Entry requirements vary greatly from country to country. Returning travelers should also ask their embassy about the current situation. The Foreign Ministry in Germany estimates that several thousand Germans are stuck abroad because of travel restrictions in the wake of the coronavirus crisis. Especially in Turkey, Morocco, Indonesia and the Philippines, German citizens are having difficulties returning to Germany. Intensive talks are being held with airlines and tour operators, "in order to find the most pragmatic and quickest possible solutions" for a return home, said Federal Foreign Office spokesperson Maria Adebahr on Monday in Berlin. In many countries, people who return from risk areas by plane or ship are required to provide their details. In Germany, so-called exit cards must be filled out on arrival. On these cards, passengers must provide information on their state of health, where they will be for the next 30 days, as well as information on stops in their countries of origin and contact persons. This makes them easier to find later in the event of an emergency should a fellow passenger test positive. (with dpa, AFP, tagesschau.de)