Read more: Coronavirus: Germany counts costs of economic shutdown Updates in Universal Coordinated Time (UTC/GMT) 16:45 New details on India's lockdown have been released. Here's what you need to know: 16:10 At least 11,000 people have applied for 525 positions at Germany’s disease control agency, the Robert Koch Institute, leading to them closing applications early. Most of the new jobs are as "containment scouts," who will man coronavirus hotlines for those infected or with questions. 15:59  The German football league has recommended extending the suspension of the Bundesliga until at least April 30. Yesterday, UEFA postponed the Champions League Final, the Europa League final and the Women's Chamions League final. 15:47 Italy’s Deputy Health Minister, Pierpaolo Sileri, has urged European countries to enforce stricter lockdowns. "You need to close whatever you can close," Sileri said in an interview with DW’s Sumi Somaskanda. He also encouraged governments to, "increase the number of Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds and increase the number of doctors." The Deputy Health Minister told DW he was "quite optimistic," but added that saying the worst was over would be premature. "No doubt, there is a decrease in the number of infections and this is due to the restrictions that were made between the 8th and the 9th of March. But we will probably need ten to 15 more days to be sure that everything is over," Sileri said. 14:45 India will enter a total lockdown tonight, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced. "Starting from midnight today, the entire country will go under a complete lockdown," Modi said in a televised address. Modi said that the lockdown will be in place for the next 21 days. "For the next few days, forget about going out. Stay at home. Do just one thing and stay at home," he urged. Modi said that the government is taking steps "to ensure continuous essential supplies" but did not immediately lay out plans for how food and other supplies will be distributed to the 1.3 billion people living in the country. Modi said that he called on the state and regional governments in India to focus primarily on health services. So far the country has logged 469 active cases and 10 deaths. Read more: India's coronavirus fight complicated by people dodging quarantine 14:43 Here are the most important developments so far today: The US has been warned by the WHO that it may become the new epicenter of the pandemic. The Tokyo Olympic Games, scheduled for July and August 2020, have officially been postponed for one year. Australia has announced new restrictions on public life, ordering most non-essential businesses to close and banning foreign travel. Schools remain open. The UK has announced strict restrictions on public life with a ban on gatherings of more than two people not from the same household. People can leave their house to exercise once a day; to go to work if they absolutely cannot work from home; for shopping trips and for medical purposes. Germany has flown 7 tons of medical equipment to Italy's Lombardy, and German hospitals have accepted patients from other parts of Italy. Meanwhile, France has sent patients to Luxembourg, Switzerland and western German states in an effort to free up intensive care beds. China's Hubei province has announced that it will lift travel restrictions and again allow movement into and out of Hubei province on March 25. The city of Wuhan, the epicenter of the coronavirus outbreak, will have travel restrictions lifted on April 8, more than two months after the lockdown began. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Zxj1 14:35 The World Health Organization has warned that the US may become the new epicenter of the pandemic due to a “very large acceleration” in infections. More than 42,000 people in the US are infected. Over the past 24 hours, 85% of new cases worldwide were from Europe and the US – now the "main drivers of the outbreak." Of those, 40% were from the US. "We are now seeing a very large acceleration in cases in the US. So it does have that potential. We cannot say that is the case yet but it does have that potential," WHO spokeswoman Margaret Harris. She said the US has "a very large outbreak" that is "increasing in intensity" "Each individual infecting two to three other people takes about three to five days, so we're seeing what happened three or four days ago, or five days ago in many countries," she said. The figures reveal that in the US, "a week ago there was a lot of transmission". Despite the surge in coronavirus infections, Harris said that the US was improving efforts in testing and isolation practices, as well as stepping up measures for tracing and quarantining people. 13:25 The 2020 Summer Olympics in Tokyo have now officially been postponed until next year. The International Olympic Committee (IOC) confirmed the unprecedented decision following a request from Japan. The decision came after mounting pressure from the international community to postpone the games. For more on the decision, read more here: Tokyo 2020 Olympics postponed until 2021 13:00 While other European countries are adding to growing lists of restrictions on public life, Sweden has kept schools, bars and restaurants open and is encouraging its citizens to go out for some exercise. Gatherings of up to 500 people are still allowed in Sweden. The government has issued behavior advisories instead of official restrictions, suggesting people keep their distance in public and that they work from home if possible. But bars were full on the weekend and public transportation has been packed at rush hour. Despite domestic and international criticism over the soft stance, Swedish authorities believe harsher restrictions aren’t worth the impact on society. Thus far, the number of coronavirus cases in Sweden are comparable with those of neighbors Norway and Denmark,  countries with around half as many people as Sweden. Bars and pubs are still open in Sweden, as other European countries go into lockdown 11:28 Prime Minister Scott Morrison announced stringent new restrictions on public and private life in a bid to flatten the curve of coronavirus. Latest figures for Australia show 2,044 confirmed cases and eight deaths. Under the updated rules:  •    Traveling to foreign countries will be banned. •    Many non-essential businesses must now shut, including gastronomy businesses, except for delivery. •    Entertainment venues as well as gyms and training studios will close. •    Healthcare and beauty businesses including hair salons, must also shut.  •    Weddings can go ahead with no more than five people and funerals can go ahead with no more than 10 people. Both are subject to social distancing rules •    Cultural sites and venues including museums and libraries must close. •    The new restrictions will come in force from midnight on Tuesday, schools will remain open. Morrison also advised people keep group meetings to a minimum and only leave the house where absolutely essential. "These are heart-breaking events in our nation's history and story," he said. The government is currently looking at making house parties an offence, according to state broadcaster ABC. 11:15 German parliamentarians have been asked to leave at least two seats empty next to their own in order to reduce the risk of spreading or catching coronavirus. Signs reading "please leave empty" were placed on many of the seats in the Bundestag on Tuesday. Members of Germany's lower house of parliament are being asked to leave at least two seats empty next to their own 11:00 The global pandemic meant that mourners held anunconventional service to commemorate the fifth anniversary of the Germanwings Flight 9525 crash, which killed all 150 people on board in southeastern France. The initial commemoration, which was set to include victims’ relatives from Germany, Spain and other countries  had to be canceled due to coronavirus. Instead, the mayors of two French municipalities in Vernet, close to the site of the crash, laid wreaths and held a minute’s silence. In Haltern-am-See in the German state of North Rhine-Westphalia, all church bells rang at 10:41 a.m. 10:30 German states are putting in place various measures to stop the spread of coronavirus in refugee homes and accommodation. These include testing, quarantines and shutting common rooms. Classes and group care for children in homes have stopped. Several states, including hard-hit Bavaria and Baden-Württemberg, are testing all new arrivals, with Bremen putting migrants in quarantine until the results are back. North Rhine-Westphalia and Lower Saxony are examining people on arrival for symptoms and asking for details about their journey. NRW is not accepting any new arrivals or transfers for the next two weeks. Despite the new measures, in Bavaria 10 residents have tested positive for COVID-19 and in Berlin four residents and a staff member in a home have been infected. 10:15 The western German state of North Rhine-Westphalia wants to take in up to 10 patients suffering from coronavirus from Italy, where hospitals have been overwhelmed. The Italian Air Force is prepared to transport the patients in the coming days. "We need a borderless solidarity in Europe," said NRW Minister President Armin Laschet. "We need to keep up the European spirit," he added. 09:45 A total of 6 million protective face masks ordered by the German military have gone missing in Kenya. The German Ministry of Defense is seeking an explanation "into what happened." The ministry has not incurred any financial loss as the masks had not yet been delivered or paid for, according to reports initially published in Der Spiegel. The German government had drawn in the military to help with planning and logistics as the country readies itself to deal with coronavirus. 09:00 Here's an overview of some of the most recent restrictions imposed by countries in Europe: United Kingdom: On Monday night, the UK imposed a three-week lockdown, with the possibility of an extension. People may only leave their homes to go to work, buy groceries, visit the doctor, or for exercise. Gatherings of more than two people are not allowed. France: The country has expanded on previously imposed lockdown restrictions. People exercising may still go outside, but runners and walkers may only go out for up to an hour a day and must remain within a kilometer of their homes. Most marketplaces have been required to close. Since French President Emmanuel Macron put the country on lockdown a week ago, people have only been allowed to leave home for necessary reasons, as in the UK. Netherlands: In the Netherlands, the government has extended its ban on gatherings, pushing the end date back from April 6 to June 1. If people don’t follow the rules, a lockdown will be imposed, Prime Minister Mark Rutte has said. Everyone is required to keep a distance of at least 1.5 meters between themselves and other people. Italy: On Saturday, Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte announced the closure of all "non-essential factories." Restrictions placed on the epicenter around Milan expired on Sunday and national measures are scheduled to expire on Wednesday. But Conte is expected to announce this week whether restrictions will be reimposed indefinitely. Italy has been living under lockdown for weeks. Activity on the bustling streets of Paris came to a complete halt after France announced a nationwide lockdown last Tuesday. People are not allowed to leave their homes, unless it is for a sanctioned reason such as buying food, visiting a doctor or going to work. The mayor of Paris, however, has called for stricter confinement measures as the number of infections increases worldwide. Chancellor Angela Merkel on Sunday announced tightened restrictions on movement in Germany. The nine-point plan includes no public gatherings of more than two people, keeping 1.5 meters (4.9 feet) distance between people at all times and the closure of restaurants. Later on Sunday, Merkel went into quarantine after being told she'd come into contact with a doctor who tested positive for COVID-19. In addition to limiting movement domestically, Germany has tightened restrictions on foreigners entering the country. As a result, traffic at the country's busiest airport, in Frankfurt, has seen a significant drop. The southern state of Bavaria imposed a statewide lockdown late last week to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Under the measures that will be in force for at least two weeks, people are not allowed to gather outside in groups and restaurants have been closed. The United Kingdom has closed all bars, pubs and restaurants to combat the threat of coronavirus. Prime Minister Boris Johnson has urged all citizens to avoid all nonessential travel and contact with other people indefinitely. In recent weeks, the epicenter of the global coronavirus pandemic has shifted from China to Italy. The country has seen an exponentional increase in infections and deaths. Italy has been on a nationwide lockdown since March 10. While an overwhelming number of coronavirus cases have been recorded in Italy's northern Lombardy region, Rome and Vatican City have also been forced to severely curb public gatherings. Popular tourist sites such as St. Peter's Square have been closed. The Spanish government on Sunday sought to extend the country's state of emergency until April 11, close to a month after it was first imposed on March 14. Spain currently has the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in Europe, with Barcelona and Madrid particularly hard-hit. Austria reported a 15% rise in confirmed coronavirus cases over the weekend, far lower than its peak rate of 40%. The decrease comes after the government imposed drastic social distancing measures across the country. Authorities in Vienna, however, aim to bring the rate down to single digits over the next three weeks. Author: Seerat Chabba Spain: After Italy, Spain is currently the European country the most affected by the coronavirus. The southern European nation has also been on lockdown, with Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez extending Spain’s state of emergency for 15 more days as of this past Sunday. People are required to stay home except for essential trips. Germany: On Sunday, Chancellor Angela Merkel banned gatherings of more than two people throughout the whole country for two weeks. Restaurants and businesses that require close physical contact have been closed. People are also required to stay 1.5 meters away from each other in public. Germany is going to great lengths to avoid a total lockdown, which is still in the cards if people don’t respect the new rules. 08:50 The Tokyo Olympic torch relay will begin on Thursday as planned in northeastern Japan, but without a torch and without a relay, Japanese media have reported. Instead, the Olympic flame will be transported by car in a lantern so as to discourage crowds from gathering to see the event. 08:15 Thailand's prime minister announced that a one-month state of emergency would come into effect on Thursday. Powers available to the government under the law on emergency situations include the ability to impose curfews, ban travel, close buildings without a warrant and censor media. The move also allows for the deployment of military forces for enforcement. Thailand was the first country outside of China to record a case of coronavirus. The Southeast Asian nation currently has 827 reported cases and four deaths. 07:30 EU countries have started cooperating to assist the member states hardest hit by the deadly coronavirus outbreak. Following an initial phase of the many countries isolating themselves from one another, Germany flew over seven tons of medical supplies to Italy, including 300 ventilators to Lombardy, according to broadcaster Südwestrundfunk. Meanwhile, hospitals in Germany, Switzerland and Luxembourg have all taken in coronavirus patients from neighboring countries. Additionally, many EU nations have drafted joint orders for personal protective equipment and medical devices, in order to buy larger quantities at cheaper prices and evenly distribute the equipment. Current research says the coronavirus family of viruses can survive on some surfaces, like door handles, for an average of four to five days. Like all droplet infections, SARS-CoV-2 can spread via hands and frequently touched surfaces. Although it hasn't previously been seen in humans and therefore hasn't been studied in detail, experts believe it spreads similarly to other known coronaviruses. A certain degree of caution is called for when eating lunch at your work cafeteria or in a cafe — that is, if they haven't been closed yet. Technically, coronaviruses can contaminate cutlery or crockery if they're coughed on by an infected person. But the German Federal Institute for Risk Assessment (BfR) states that "no infections with SARS-CoV-2 via this transmission route are known to date." Should parents fear a possible infection from imported toys? It's unlikely, say the BfR. As of yet, there are no cases of an infection via imported toys or other goods. Initial laboratory tests show that the pathogens can remain infectious for up to 24 hours on cardboard and up to three days on plastic and stainless steel - especially in high humidity and cold settings. A recent study from the Rocky Mountain Laboratories in the US found the novel coronavirus can survive up to 72 hours on stainless steel and up to 24 hours on cardboard surfaces — in an ideal laboratory setting. But because the survival of the virus is dependent on many factors like temperature and humidity, the BfR says getting infected from handling the post is "rather unlikely." Experts consider the risk of pets being infected with the coronavirus to be very low. But they can't yet rule it out. The animals themselves show no symptoms, so they don't become ill. However, if they are infected, it is possible they could transmit coronaviruses via the air or via excretions (their poop). "Unlikely." According to the BfR, transmitting SARS-CoV-2 via contaminated food is not likely to happen and, so far, there are no proven cases of infection this way. As the viruses are heat-sensitive, heating food during cooking can further reduce the risk of infection. Of course, you should thoroughly wash your hands before cooking and eating — and this goes for anytime, regardless of corona! Although the SARS and MERS coronaviruses known to date don't like heat, they are quite immune to the cold. Research shows they can remain infectious at minus 20 degrees Celsius for up to two years. But the BfR gives frozen food the all-clear. So far, there's no evidence of SARS-CoV-2 infection via the consumption of any food, including frozen food. The COVID-19 outbreak has prompted many extraordinary measures and China's ban of the consumption of wild animals is no exception. There is compelling research to suggest the novel coronavirus originated in bats before being passed to humans via another intermediate animal. But it's not the animals we need to blame — experts say humans are exposed to these viruses via our interaction with animals. Author: Julia Vergin (cs) 06:30 The German state of North Rhine-Westphalia will be the first to publish a catalogue of fines for violators of the new nationwide restrictions on movement implemented on Sunday. According to Bild newspaper, a fine of €800 ($865) will be levied against people making unauthorized visits to nursing homes and hospitals, while people gathering in groups of more than two will be hit with €200 fines, and picnics and barbecues will incur €250. Additionally, according to the report, those operating a bar, club or gym will be fined €5,000. State Interior Minister Herbert Reul told Bild  that the fines should make it clear that violations of the measures were not "trivial offenses." "The punishments hurt, they have to," he said. The measures make it possible to punish those who "knowingly jeopardize the health of their fellow citizens." 05:35 China's Hubei province announced on Tuesday that it would lift travel restrictions and again allow movement into and out of the province on March 25, with the exception of Wuhan, the epicenter of the coronavirus outbreak. Travel restrictions will be lifted in Wuhan on April 8, after more than two months of a complete lockdown. 04:57 The International Monetary Fund (IMF) says it has been approached by a dozen countries in the Middle East and Asia who are seeking financial support to cope with the coronavirus crisis. "This challenge will be especially daunting for the region's fragile and conflict-torn states — such as Iraq, Sudan, and Yemen," Jihad Azour, the director of the fund's Middle East and Central Asia department, wrote in an IMF blog post. Azour said the pandemic is causing economic turmoil that could drastically hamper growth in the region. He went on to write that the IMF's executive board would consider countries' requests for emergency assistance in the coming days, with Kyrgyzstan expected to receive the first payment of the outbreak. Read more: Coronavirus: No fathers allowed in delivery rooms 03:22 Here is the latest from around the Americas: United States: Monday saw several US governers ordering people in their states to stay at home. Washington, which has seen a quarter of the COVID-19 deaths in the country, became the latest to issue such a decree. New York is now the epicenter of the coronavirus outbreak in the US, with 157 deaths, more than any other state. In total, 42,000 people are reported to be infected with COVID-19 in the US and at least 559 people have died. Puerto Rico: All inbound commercial flights have been ordered to land at the main international airport. It is the only airport on the island with temperature scanners. There have been 31 cases of COVID-19 and two deaths in Puerto Rico. Brazil: President Jair Bolsanaro was forced to roll back a decree that let companies suspend salaries to workers during the coronavirus outbreak. His decision came after mounting criticism from lawmakers and the public over his respose to the outbreak. Brazil has the most confirmed cases of coronavirus in Latin America at 1,891. Thirty-four deaths have been reported in the country, mostly in Sao Paulo. Cuba: The country is sealing its borders Tuesday. All remaining foreign tourists will be quarantined until they can arrange for their travel. As of Monday, there were 32,574 tourists reported to be in Cuba. Prime Minister Manuel Marrero said that Cuban citizens, too, would not be allowed to leave the country. Citizens arriving in Cuba will be quarantined for 14 days upon arrival. Cuba has reported 40 cases of COVID-19. One person has died. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3ZtpI 03:04 Here is the latest from around Asia: Thailand: Four people have died of the coronavirus in Thailand, according to a health official cited by Reuters. The country has confirmed 827 cases of infection so far. The Cabinet is expected to discuss additional measures to help people affected by the pandemic later on Tuesday. South Korea: 76 coronavirus cases were reported in South Korea on Tuesday, continuing a downward trend in new infections. The total number of cases now stands at 9,037, with 120 deaths, according to the Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Authorities have tightened border checks to prevent the virus from re-entering with people arriving from overseas. Myanmar: The country has reported its first two confirmed cases of the coronavirus. The Health Ministry said the patients, aged 36 and 26, are both citizens of Myanmar who recently returned from the US and Britain. Before the announcement, Myanmar had been the most populous country in the world not to have any coronavirus cases. Last week the government banned mass gatherings and closed land borders, but bars and restaurants remain open. India: In an effort to contain the COVID-19 outbreak, India has taken the unprecedented step of shutting down its massive train network — a service normally used by more than 20 million passengers each day. It has already closed sea and river ports, and plans to ground all domestic passenger flights from Wednesday following earlier steps to ban international arrivals. India has reported 415 coronavirus infections and seven deaths. Districts that have cases have been placed under lockdown, with all but essential services closed. There are fears that the country's public health infrastructure could buckle if cases were to surge in the way they have elsewhere. Nepal: India's neighbor Nepal began a week-long lockdown on Tuesday. The measure restricts "outdoor movement of individuals except for buying medicine and emergency activities," according to a government spokesman quoted by AFP. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3ZuXT Philippines: Health authorities in the Philippines have reported 39 new coronavirus cases, bringing the total to 501, Reuters reports. Health Undersecretary Maria Rosario Vergeire told reporters 33 patients had died so far from the virus, while 19 had recovered. Macau: Residents of Hong Kong, mainland China and Taiwan who have traveled overseas in the past two weeks will be banned from entering the territory from Wednesday, Reuters reports. Macau's leader, Ho Iat Seng, said Tuesday that those who had not been abroad would still be placed under quarantine for 14 days. Macau, a gambling hub popular with Chinese tourists, already closed its borders to all foreign visitors last week. It has so far confirmed 25 coronavirus cases. 01:21 China's National Health Commission says it has recorded 78 new cases of the COVID-19 virus, as well as seven fatalities. Seventy-four of those infections were "imported," and involved people recently arriving from abroad, according to the commission. Only one case was recorded in the central city of Wuhan, where the novel coronavirus was first detected in December. Transmission inside China has dropped dramatically in recent weeks, while the number of cases among people coming from other countries has risen to 427. Around 90% of the 81,496 infected patients in China have recovered from the virus. More than 3,200 people have died Read more: India's coronavirus fight complicated by people dodging quarantine 00:54 The US is calling for the 2020 Olympic Games in Tokyo to be delayed due to the coronavirus pandemic. "We encourage the International Olympic Committee to take all needed steps to ensure the Games can be conducted under safe and fair conditions for all competitors," the US Olympic and Paralympic Committee said in statement. The plea came after a survey of American athletes showed overwhelming support for a postponement. The event is scheduled to begin on July 24, but sporting bodies and athletes around the world have been pushing for it to be moved to next year instead. The move echoes similar calls for postponement from Canada and Australia. Read more: Coronavirus has Olympic athletes 'running on the spot' — sports scientist 00:00 Catch up on yesterday's coronavirus developments here: Coronavirus latest: UK rolls out nationwide lockdown Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Zw5a DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.