For many children, school is a place of learning and socializing. For others, however, it is a safe place — a refuge from unsafe home environments where they face the threat of child abuse. According to police figures, more than 4,000 cases of child abuse were reported in 2018. The number of child sex abuse cases was significantly higher at more than 14,000. Close quarters contribute to conflict Now, with schools closed as part of Germany's measures to limit the spread of the coronavirus, and many children out of sight, child protection organizations have warned of a potential increase in child abuse. Chief executive of the German Children's Association (Deutscher Kinderverein), Rainer Rettinger, says the situation for some children could become life-threatening. Read more: Germany: 1 woman per hour is victim of domestic violence "Close confines and not being able to avoid each other adds to potential conflict and increases aggressiveness," says Rettinger, adding that children with parents suffering from addiction should be a particular focus. "Now, in times of the coronavirus crisis, these children are alone with the parents. No one who sees the parents' misery. No one who sees the child's misery," he says. Read more: Coronavirus: Germany shuts down borders, halts public life Increase in online support With many support groups and youth services practicing social distancing, child protection agencies are demanding an increase in support on digital platforms, including social media, to keep children and families well-informed of the help that's available. "Children must also be addressed and included in information," says Stefanie Fried from Save the Children Deutschland. "At the moment, children are mainly informed via adults, but those most vulnerable might not be receiving the correct information — especially now that they're no longer in schools." Read more: Coronavirus sends class home — Estonia's ready, Germany lags While supporting the German government's measures to encourage social distancing, Fried also warned against the long-term difficulties for all families of staying indoors for weeks on end. "We mustn't forget that children aren't adults, they need the room to move, and let off steam. These measures can be upheld for a short while, but then the state needs to reintroduce some kinds of recreational possibilities for families in the fresh air." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Zig4 Read more: Domestic violence against men – German states move to break taboos Fears of domestic violence Shelters and counseling centers also fear that domestic and sexual violence among adults will increase significantly in the coming weeks as more people work from home. Others face being made redundant or have already been let go due to the economic repercussions of coronavirus — adding to stressful circumstances in the home. Similar trends have already been reported in China where in some places, the number of domestic abuse cases was three times as high as usual after weeks of strict isolation measures. "Under the current measures in place in Germany, the violent partner is less likely to leave the apartment, making it almost impossible for victims to reach out and call advice centers," Katja Grieger from the Federal Association of Women's Counselling and Rape Crisis Centers (bff) told DW. Read more: Blood in the time of corona: Why donations are needed more than ever A third of all women and girls experience physical or sexual abuse in their lifetime, according to the UN. Half of the women killed worldwide were killed by their partners or members of the family. Data collected by women's advocacy group "Feminicides par compagnons ou ex"("Femicide by partner or ex") found that 74 women in France were killed by their husband or partner in 2019 so far. The year's final toll is expected to surpass last year's figures. The rate of women killed at the hands of their partner in France is among the highest in Europe, which French President Emmanuel Macron has called "France's shame." On November 25, the government unveiled new measures aimed at reducing the number of victims, including a pledge to seize firearms from abusive spouses, the creation of 1,000 new women's shelters and better police training. In Germany, figures showed that at least one woman is physically injured every hour on average at the hands of their partner. German Family Minister Franziska Giffey announced on November 25 that the government will spend €30 million ($33 million) a year over the next four years toward increasing the capacity of women's shelters. As of 2019, there were 350 shelters nationwide. Italian footballers in the country's top league, Serie A, took to the pitch with red streaks on their faces as part of a call to end violence against women. UC Sampdoria and Udinese Calcio took part in the campaign in Genoa, which coincided with International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women. In Italy, 142 women were killed through domestic violence, up 0.7% from the previous year, according to figures released Monday. Trauma surgeon Maria Grazia Vantadori in Milan came up with the idea to show the X-rays of domestic violence abuse victims at the hospital. "Our bones are all the same. So any of these could be any woman," she said Only a handful of countries in Europe, including Germany and Belgium, define rape as sex without consent. Other countries often require proof of intimidation or violence. In Brussels, Belgium, red shoes were lined up on the ground to mark International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women. Spain, Italy, Greece and France — among many other countries — do not legally define rape as sex without consent. Earlier this month, Spaniards took to the streets to protest a Barcelona court decision that sentenced five of six men accused of gang-raping a 14-year-old girl to 10 to 12 years in prison for sexually abusing the minor — but acquitted them of the more serious charge of rape. In Malaga, Spain, protesters took part in a 'Caminata del Silencio' (Walk of silence) on November 25 to denounce femicide and sexual violence against women. Each placard contains the names of all women who were killed by their partners in Spain so far this year. "Violence against women and girls is among the most widespread, and devastating human rights violations in the world, but much of it is often unreported due to impunity, shame and gender inequality," said the UN in a statement marking International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. In Guatemala, 571 women have been killed so far in 2019. Author: Stephanie Burnett Personal visits from support networks and social services are also being reduced over fears of spreading the COVID-19 virus. "This is why we're calling on neighbors to be extra aware of possible cases of domestic violence," Grieger says. "If you hear loud shouts or cries in neighboring apartments, call the police." If stricter curfews are implemented, the situation will become even more severe — effectively trapping victims of domestic violence with their abuser. Read more: What you need to know about the coronavirus Call for political aid The German Ministry for Family, Senior Citizens, Women and Youth (BMFSFJ) says it has the problems "on the radar." But the issue of domestic violence and child abuse against the backdrop of coronavirus is yet to be addressed by Minister Franziska Giffey (SPD). With private and corporate donations both expected to decrease as coronavirus pulls on the purse strings Deutscher Kinderverein CEO Rettinger says, "we cannot simply trust that everything will be fine." To protect Germany's most vulnerable, politicians are feeling the pressure — time is of the essence for them to provide financial support and enforce all possible resources to ensure the safety of those who are most at-risk. If you are in Germany and experiencing violence and need confidential advice, call Hilfetelefon's central helpline in Germany at 08000 116 016 or visit hilfetelefon.de. Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.