German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said on Monday that financial aid for refugees in Turkey may be subject to certain conditions. Tens of thousands of migrants and refugees have gathered on the Turkish-Greek border after Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan announced in February that the European Union's border was open. The EU has accused Erdogan of ignoring the terms of a 2016 refugee pact. "Europe's message to Turkey is clear: We believe in a fair sharing of the burden, but we do not accept that people who find themselves in desperate situations should be misused as political pawns," Maas told the German Funke media group. "Negotiations made at the expense of the weakest will not give the desired result," he added. Read more: Opinion: Europe has lost its soul at the border Erdogan to attend Brussels talks President Erdogan is expected in Brussels later on Monday to discuss the unfolding situation, a day after Germany announced they were open to taking in 1,500 refugee children. Erdogan may be hoping to secure financial aid from the EU. "Turkish President Erdogan says he wants some more support from the international community and from Europe when it comes to refugees and migrants," said DW's Turkey correspondent Julia Hahn. "Turkey hosts nearly 4 million refugees, mainly from Syria, and now Erdogan fears another large-scale refugee influx from Idlib, where hundreds of thousands of refugees have fled to near the Turkish border," she added. The EU has not ruled out further financial aid for Turkey to deal with the ongoing refugee and migration situation. "However, that assumes that Turkey sticks to its part of the deal," Maas said on Monday. Read more: Ankara, Athens exploit refugees in dangerous political game Germany and the EU have repeated that the deal still stands and urged fleeing individuals not to attempt to cross the border illegally. Thousands of people took to the streets in Germany on Saturday to demand the EU accept more refugees. ed/ng (AFP, dpa) Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Z1I4 Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.