Read more: What you need to know about the coronavirus Updates in Universal Coordinated Time (UTC/GMT) 13:49 Brazil's Sao Paulo exchange suspends trading after more than 10% drop. 13:39 Stocks on Brazil's Sao Paulo exchange plunged more than 9% after it opened Monday, amid the coronavirus outbreak and oil price fears. 13:38 The number of people infected with COVID-19 in the Netherlands increased to 321 on Monday, up from 264 a day earlier, Dutch health authorities said. 13:35 Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte has declared a state of public health emergency as cases of the new coronavirus rose to 20, officials said. 13:29 Albania reported its first coronavirus infections. The two patients include a 28-year-old man who returned from Italy and infected his 54-year-old father. The government is shutting down schools for two weeks and cancelling flights and ferry services from northern Italy until April 3. 12:33 Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki says Poland will impose sanitary controls at its border with Germany and Czech Republic due to the coronavirus. 12:29 French President Emmanuel Macron will hold a video-conference call on Tuesday with other EU leaders and with the EU Council President Charles Michel to coordinate a response to COVID-19. 12:20 The UK's bluechip FTSE 100 dropped 6.90% while Italy's key FTSE MIB index plunged 10.29% amid the coronavirus outbreak. Japan's Nikkei stock index fell 5.07%. 11:54 The United Arab Emirates confirmed 14 new cases of COVID-19, bringing the total number of people diagnosed to 59, according to state news agency WAM. Of the new cases, there were four Emiratis, three Italians, two each from Bangladesh and Nepal, and a Russian, Syrian and Indian diagnosed with the virus, WAM reported, citing the country's Health Ministry. 11:40 Augustin de Romanet, the head of French airports company ADP, has tested positive for the coronavirus and "will stay at his home for 14 days," an ADP spokesman said on Monday. 11:35 Spain's Ministry of Health confirmed on Monday 999 coronavirus cases in the country, with the majority of cases in the Madrid area (469) and Basque Country in northern Spain (149). The local health authority in the Basque town of Labastida said schools will be closed for at least 14 days. 11:31 The France versus Ireland Six Nations match on Saturday has been postponed due to the coronavirus as well as the restart of matches of Japan's J.League. 11:16 FIFA and the Asian Football Confederation (AFC) have agreed to postpone the Asian World Cup qualifying matches in March and June because of the coronavirus outbreak, FIFA announced in a statement. Matches could still go ahead if the member associations due to play each other mutually agree, subject to prior approval from both FIFA and the AFC. 11:06 The Tokyo 2020 Olympics torch-lighting ceremony in Olympia, Greece will be held without spectators in an attempt to protect the global event from the coronavirus, Greece's Olympic Committee said on Monday. 10:59 A NATO staff member employed at the Brussels headquarters has tested positive for the coronavirus, a spokesperson said. The employee, who is currently in self-isolation at home, fell sick with a fever last week after returning from a holiday in northern Italy. NATO said all immediate colleagues were informed and are now working from home. Read more: In times of coronavorus, looking at how Hollywood films portray virus outbreaks 10:48 An Iranian Health Ministry spokesperson says the country's death toll from coronavirus infections is 237 in total. 10:40 Saudi Arabia announced it would impose a fine of up to 500,000 riyals ($133,000, €117,000) on people who do not declare correct health-related information at entry points, according to state TV. 10:37 German Economy Minister Peter Altmaier said companies hit by coronavirus will receive the help they need. The government will "not allow the virus to infect the German economy," Altmaier said on the sidelines of a German-Greek business event in Berlin. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Z574 10:33 The Paris police authority has said the Paris Saint-Germain versus Borussia Dortmund Champions League soccer match will take place behind closed doors due to concerns over the coronavirus outbreak. 10:28 A Disneyland Paris maintenance worker tested positive for coronavirus over the weekend, a spokesman said, adding that the worker has not been in contact with visitors but that the theme park is checking on staff who have been in contact with the worker. Disneyland Paris remains open. 10:13 Iran has released about 70,000 prisoners because of coronavirus, the country's judiciary chief Ebrahim Raisi said on Monday, according to Mizan, the news site of the judiciary."The release of the prisoners, to the point where it doesn't create insecurity in society ... will continue," Raisi said, not specifying if or when the prisoners would not to return to jail. 10:07 Bahrain Health Ministry says 95 cases of coronavirus have been diagnosed in total so far. 10:05 The EU Parliament will hold an emergency meeting on Monday to consider calling off this week's plenary session of the EU assembly due to the outbreak, two officials said. 09:58 Disneyland Paris is checking on staff who had been in contact with a worker who tested positive for the coronavirus. The entertainment park remains open. 09:52 Nigeria has a second confirmed coronavirus case, Health Minister Osagie Ehanire said in a tweet. 09:18 The UK said anyone returning from areas in Italy under lockdown must self-isolate for 14 days regardless of whether they show symptoms. 09:04 The oil price crash has knocked the UK's bluechip FTSE 100 to a three-year low at -7.40% while the DAX plunged 6.21% on concerns of a global recession triggered by the outbreak. Italy's key FTSE MIB index plummeted by around 10% as Italy tackles the coronavirus crisis. 08:57 The March of the Living, an annual Holocaust remembrance event that brings together survivors in Poland has been postponed due to fears of the coronavirus, organizer Shmuel Rosenman said in a statement. Eleven cases of the virus have been confirmed so far in Poland. 08:41 Germany, France and Switzerland closed their missions in North Korea and withdrew their staff amid growing concern about coronavirus in the isolated country, the Russian embassy in Pyongyang said. 08:37 Romania suspended all flights to and from Italy for two weeks from Monday to limit the spread of coronavirus after a spike of new infections, Interior Minister Marcel Vela said. Since February 26, Romania has confirmed 15 cases of the virus in people who traveled to Italy, where nearly 1.3 million Romanians work. 08:22 South Korea reports 96 new coronavirus cases, with the total rising to 7,478, according to Reuters. 07:58 British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will chair an emergency meeting on coronavirus on Monday as the government discusses tougher measures to combat the outbreak. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Z4r0 08:03 British budget airline easyJet says it expects to reduce flights to northern Italy in the period up to April 3 due to coronavirus lockdown in the area. 08:01 Germany's Robert Koch Institute reported 210 new confirmed cases of the coronavirus on Monday. The number of cases rose to 1,112, up from 902 reported on Sunday. The western region of North Rhine-Westphalia has 484 confirmed cases, the highest in the country. 07:44 Europe needs a "massive" economic stimulus plan to handle the impact of the coronavirus outbreak, French Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire told France Inter radio. Le Maire also said the virus could cut French economic growth below 1% in 2020 from a previous estimate of 1.3%. 07:39 State oil giant Saudi Aramco sees shares drop by 10% on Riyadh's Tadawul stock exchange and forcing a halt to Aramco's trading. 07:19 Saudi Arabia announced an immediate suspension of all flights with Bahrain, Egypt, Iraq, Italy, Kuwait, Lebanon, South Korea, Syria and the United Arab Emirates over the spread of COVID-19. The measure comes after the country closed off its land borders as well. Read more:  Italy fumbles coronavirus lockdown orders 07:05 Germany's Bundesliga is considering ordering matches to be played behind closed doors, as Health Minister Jens Spahn has suggested restricting events of over 1,000 people amid the coronavirus outbreak. The measure could see Wednesday's Borussia Mönchengladbach versus Cologne derby behind closed doors. 06:59 Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte says the country will "fully use" flexibility envisaged by EU budget rules to confront the outbreak. 06:49 German Finance Minister Olaf Scholz said it is unclear whether the coronavirus epidemic will pose a longer-term economic challenge, hours after Chancellor Angela Merkel's Cabinet agreed on measures to counter its impact. Scholz told broadcaster Deutschlandfunk that the German government will ensure the economy has enough liquidity. 06:40 Japan’s benchmark Nikkei stock index plunged 5.07% over major concerns about the economic fallout of the epidemic, a plunge in oil prices and the yen's surge against major currencies, dragging stock markets in Asia along with it. Oil prices fell by 30%, the greatest fall since the 1991 Gulf War. 05:40 South Korea's Prime Minister Chung Sye-kyun said the country was nearing a "turning point" in the crisis as the pace of new infections slowed. The Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (KCDC) reported a total of 69 new coronavirus cases, bringing the number of infections up to 7,382. 04:38 President of Philippines, Rodrigo Duterte, declared a state of public health emergency. The country has 10 confirmed cases so far. 03:31 France has banned gatherings of 1,000 and more people in an effort to contain the spread of the virus. The government had previously banned gatherings of more than 5,000 people. With more than 1,100 cases recorded, France is the second worst affected European nation after Italy. Two French MPs have also been tested positively for coronavirus. France is the second worst affected European nation. 02:54 China closed a majority of the makeshift hospitals it opened to deal with the novel coronavirus outbreak. 01:37 Argentina registered the first death from coronavirus in Latin America. The 64-year-old Buenos Aires resident, who had returned from Europe testing positive, had already been suffering from a variety of illness when he contracted the disease. Read more: A coronavirus vaccine isn't coming very quickly 01:22 Albania reported its first coronavirus infections. A father and son who had returned from Italy tested positive for the disease. More than 400,000 Albanians live in neighboring Italy across the Adriatic Sea. 01:00 Two US Republican congress members, House Representative Paul Gosar and Senator Ted Cruz, announced they would self-quarantine after having brief contact with a man who tested positive for coronavirus at the Conservative Political Action Conference nearly two weeks ago. Read more: Opinion: We need to deal with our coronavirus panic Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Z2i4 00:13 Mainland China reported 40 new cases and 22 deaths by the end of March 8. Hubei province, which has been the epicenter of the outbreak, reported 36 new cases and 21 deaths. But for the second straight day, no new locally transmitted cases were reported outside Hubei province. Read more: Coronavirus in Germany: Health care system under pressure mvb, kmm,jcg/ng (AP, AFP, dpa, Reuters) Each evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.