The entire film industry is grinding to a halt. All over the world, film releases are being postponed, festivals are being cancelled and shoots have been interrupted. Cinemas have been shut for weeks. Both the multiplexes and smaller arthouse theaters in Germany, and across the globe, closed their doors by early March, along with other cultural institutions. Hollywood is sounding the alarm, saying the losses will run into the billions. But the hit on income among the big West Coast studios is only one part of a crisis affecting an entire film ecosystem. Independent productions, small cinema owners and freelance filmmakers who often operate paycheck to paycheck have been hit especially hard. Film releases postponed It began in early March with the announcement that the release of 25th installment of the blockbuster James Bond franchise, No Time to Die, would be postponed until November. Other major Hollywood productions soon followed suit: Disney withdrew the major fantasy drama, Mulan; and Sony Pictures' Peter Rabbit 2, the live-action/CG sequel to the 2018 worldwide hit film, was also postponed. Hollywood is already expecting a loss of 20 billion dollars this year. The European market followed. Numerous potential arthouse hits that recently premiered or won prizes at festivals such as Sundance or the Berlinale were either postponed or temporarily withdrawn. The release of the Silver Bear-winning film Undine by German director Christian Petzoldwas pushed back to June, but that might be optimistic. Six films were nominated in the top category, best feature film. Among them is a film that just premiered at the Berlin International Film Festival: Burhan Qurbani's modern-day adaptation of Alfred Döblin's classic novel, "Berlin Alexanderplatz," originally set in 1920s Berlin. The film is an impressive three-hour epic on flight, migration and big city life. "It's the Spoken Word" by director Ilker Catak also addresses central issues of contemporary German society, showing some parallels to "Berlin Alexanderplatz." In the film, a Kurdish man (played by Ogulcan Arman Uslu) wants to gain a foothold in Germany and gets involved in a fictitious marriage with a German. In the statistics of the German Film Awards, director Christian Petzold is listed as the person who has been nominated most often to date — but he's never received the award. This time around he has another chance with his film "Undine," which oscillates between fairy tale and contemporary drama. "Undine" (with Paula Beer) also celebrated its world premiere at the 70th Berlinale this year. "Lara" is an intense drama and another work on the list of six nominated films in the top category. Director Jan-Ole Gerster tells the story of a woman who had to break off her career as a pianist and who now dumps her frustration and passion onto her son, who is also a pianist (played by Tom Schilling). Corinna Harfouch offers an impressive performance in the main role. "Lindenberg! Do your thing" is a trip back through time to the Federal Republic of Germany during the 1960s and 70s, offering a very entertaining view of the early phases of musician Udo Lindenberg's career. Director Hermine Huntgeburth manages — along with her outstanding leading actor Jan Bülow — to create a musical biopic that's also a historical snapshot of an era. The multiple award-winning "System Crasher" is also one of the films that are now competing for the main prize in the category best feature film on April 24. Director Nora Fingscheidt and her impressive story of a child (played by Helena Zengel), who apparently does not want to adapt to any German educational system, was submitted as the German contribution for the Oscars. In the second main category, best documentary film, three works made it into the final round of the competition. In addition to "Schlingensief" (about director Christoph Schlingensief, who died in 2010) and "Heimat ist ein Raum aus Zeit" (a cinematic essay on German history), the third film "Born in Evin" (photo) was nominated — a personal story by Maryam Zaree, born in the notorious Iran prison. The third main category at the 70th German Film Awards, best children's film, features only two works in the final round. "Fritzi: A Revolutionary Tale" is an animated film for children about the fall of the Berlin Wall. "When Hitler Stole Pink Rabbit" (starring Riva Krymalowski, photo) is the literary adaptation of the popular novel by Judith Kerr, directed by Caroline Link. The award in the category greatest box office success is already known. Here, "The Perfect Secret" by director Bora Dagtekin won the competition. The comedy is a remake of an Italian box-office hit and features a number of prominent German actors (including Karoline Herfurth and Elyas M'Barek). Five million movie-goers have seen "The Perfect Secret" so far. It's also clear that Edgar Reitz will grab an honorary prize. The director, who created a feature film series called "Heimat" in 1984, brought worldwide recognition to German cinema. Reitz is being honored for his life's work. He was one of the founding fathers of the New German Cinema in the 1960s and since then he has made many award-winning feature films and documentaries. Author: Jochen Kürten (als) Digital solutions Unlike the films that came to the cinemas shortly before the Corona crisis and disappeared again after a few days, postponed theatrical releases have time to better prepare marketing for a potential summer release. Meanwhile, distributors are bringing forward digital releases that routinely come months after a theatrical run. Earlier this month, big studios like Disney, Warner Bros. and NBCUniversal began to push forward video-on-demand releases on iTunes and Amazon for films like The Invisible Man, Emma and Frozen 2. While mega budget productions like No Time to Die will still await more profitable theatrical premiers, the new digital approach might lessen the pain in the time of corona. "Rather than delaying these films or releasing them into a challenged distribution landscape, we wanted to provide an option for people to view these titles in the home that is both accessible and affordable," said Jeff Shell, CEO of NBCUniversal, in a statement. read more: Twelve films to slow down with It is assumed that streaming content providers like Netflix, a producer that already releases titles directly onto its streaming platform, will also flourish as populations are isolated in their apartments. Netflix, Amazon Prime, the Disney+, which has been on offer in Germany since March 24, have seen a surge in usage. Smaller niche providers such as Mubi are also benefiting. But it's not all good news. In tough economic times, Netflix likely won't be growing its subscriber base, according to reporting by Forbes. And when existing subscribers make the most of their film and series streaming options while in isolation, internet bandwidth capacity is being stretched to the limit. Providers like YouTube are already trying to compensate by offering reduced quality streams, with Netflix already reducing its bit rate by 25% for one month across Europe. In the US and Canada, Kelly Reichardt's film "First Cow," which competed at the 2020 Berlinale, had a brief cinema release before the coronavirus outbreak forced theaters to close. Film festivals and productions on hold Numerous global film festivals due to take place this spring have also been canceled due to COVID-19. The Cannes International Film Festival was due to start on 12 May and so has been postponed until further notice.  The Tribeca Film Festival in New York that was founded by Robert de Niro has also been postponed. In Germany, the renowned Short Film Festival in Oberhausen will not take place, nor will the Women's Film Festival Dortmund/Cologne. Smaller festivals such as these are often unable to make up for lost time due to organizational and financial problems. Oberhausen is currently working on an online replacement concept. The Cannes red carpet won't be rolled out in May The corona crisis also caused many film productions to shut down until further notice. Hollywood blockbuster productions like Avatar 2, Matrix 4, Jurassic World: Dominion and The Last Duel were stopped. Numerous television and film projects in Europe and Germany have also been affected. With more than 1000 television shoots delayed in Europe alone, the damage is likely to be immense. Carlo Chatrian is the Berlin Film Festival's new artistic director, while Mariette Rissenbeek is responsible for its management. Chatrian is an acknowledged film history expert and previously headed the Locarno Festival. Rissenbeek worked for German Films, the national organization for the international promotion of German cinema. Both follow in the footsteps of longtime director Dieter Kosslick. The new management brings a breath of fresh air to Germany's oldest film festival, with a new look for the festival posters, new venues, new sections in the program and a new focus. The program has also been streamlined; while it previously used to include about 400 works, 340 films will be screened during the festival this year. The international competition this year has 18 films all hoping to win a Golden or Silver Bear award. Three films actually take place in the German capital, including "Berlin Alexanderplatz" (photo) by German-Afghan director Burhan Qurbani. Unlike in past years, where at least one Hollywood film was in the running, this year's US contributions are films produced independently of the big studios, without the usual Hollywood stars. A few big-name actors star in a British production, Sally Potter's "The Roads Not Taken": Javier Bardem, Elle Fanning (photo), Salma Hayek and Laura Linney. Russian director Ilya Khrzhanovsky spent years working on "DAU," a set of 13 feature films, series and documentaries created from 700 hours of material. The feature film "DAU. Natasha" is in the main competition at the Berlinale. The documentary "DAU. Degeneration" (photo), looks at the story of Soviet physicist Lev Davidovich Landau, and is part of a special series at the festival. Jeremy Irons is jury president this year. The British actor with Hollywood experience heads an international jury of six actors, directors and a producer from Germany. Chatrian decided not to open the Berlinale with a film that is in the running for the top prize, the Golden Bear. He hopes for a relaxed atmosphere when the film festival kicks off with "My Salinger Year," a story about the world of literature, the author of the cult novel "Catcher in the Rye" and an agent played by Sigourney Weaver. Carlo Chatrian and his new team naturally also want to put their own stamp on the Berlinale. The new director launched a second competition, the "Encounters" series that also promises awards. Fifteen films are competing, including Portuguese director Catarina Vasconcelos' debut film, "The Metamorphosis of Birds," pictured above. This year, the "International Forum of New Cinema" section, created to add new cinematic forms, experiments and newcomers to the competition, celebrates its 50th anniversary. Christina Nord is the Forum's new director. Thirty-five films will be shown, including "Victoria," a documentary exploring a Los Angeles desert (photo). "Panorama" is another major Berlinale section that features world premieres. "Sexy, edgy, daring" is how the section describes itself. It is by its own accounts "explicitly queer, explicitly feminist, explicitly political" and focuses on "what is new, daring, unconventional and wild in today’s cinema." "No Hard Feelings" (photo) is about refugees in a small town in Germany. The "Generation" section has been around for a long time, and is aimed at younger audiences. This year, 59 new films will be shown for children and young adults. The Dutch film "Paradise Drifters" (photo) tells the story of three teenage drifters in search of security and a place to stay. A four-hour documentary series may turn out to be one of the festival's big hits — in particular because its "leading actress" is expected to be in Berlin for the European premiere. It is about the life and career of former Secretary of State and presidential candidate Hillary Clinton. "Hillary" will be broadcast worldwide by streaming provider Hulu beginning in March. The Berlinale is also a showcase for cinematic history. The screening of the restored version of the silent film classic "The Wax Museum" is bound to be a highlight. A major film history retrospective is dedicated to Hollywood director King Vidor. He directed in the silent movie era and later created epic historical movies like the 1959 romance "Solomon and Sheba" (photo). These days, a major film festival can hardly afford not to show series. The Berlinale presents series premieres from Australia, Denmark, Germany, France, Canada, Austria, the US and the UK. That includes new formats: For instance, the six episodes of the Danish series "Sex" have a total running time of only 77 minutes. Cinema lovers will find out who won the 2020 Golden Bear on February 29. The recipients of two other prizes have already been determined: The Berlinale Camera 2020 goes to German director Ulrike Oettinger, the Golden Honorary Bear to Helen Mirren (photo). The actress who starred in "The Cook, the Thief, His Wife & Her Lover" and "The Queen" is also being honored with an homage. Author: Jochen Kürten (db) 'In this together' In an op-ed for the Washington Post, Christopher Nolan, British star director of Dunkirk and the Batman film franchise, made an impassioned plea for those unsung yet essential film industry workers to get financial assistance during the corona crisis. "When people think about movies, their minds first go to the stars, the studios, the glamour," he wrote. "But the movie business is about everybody: the people working the concession stands, running the equipment, taking tickets, booking movies, selling advertising and cleaning bathrooms in local theaters." "We're all in this together," he added.