It has never been easy for foreigners to come to Germany for work. For many decades, political leaders have insisted the country wasn't pursuing active immigration policies. But this has changed in recent years due to the fact that Germany is lacking more than a million skilled laborers to keep its economy going. As of March 1, a new law will facilitate the immigration of qualified workers to Germany. Below is a list of the most important changes for all those who are seeking a job from abroad. Who is considered a skilled worker? Contrary to previous legislation, being considered a skilled worker, or "specialist," is no longer restricted to a person with a university or college degree. Instead, the term now also applies to someone who has acquired a vocational training certificate. The training program must be at least two years in length, and the resulting degree needs to be recognized as equal or similar to a German degree. If you want to check whether your qualification suits the requirements, you can access an information portal set up by the German Labor Ministry. How this works is explained on the "Make it in Germany" website, where you can also find links to other issues related to working in the country. The government's aim is to finish the recognition process of an applicant within three months after all the necessary documents have been provided. A work visa will be issued four weeks later. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3W9tI Who is allowed to work in Germany? In principle, applicants from outside the European Union are generally allowed to work in Germany if they have a work contract with a firm based in Germany and the relevant professional qualification for the job. The new law has stripped away a key regulation: That people from outside the EU can only take a job if there is no German or EU citizen who is able to do it instead. Job seekers with qualifications lower than the vocational training level are, however, excluded by the new law. They can nevertheless apply for immigration if they possess a work contract or a job offer from a German employer. The employer then has to train the applicant and make sure he or she acquires a professional-level certificate within two years. What else is needed? All those with a work contract or a specific job offer are granted residency status for four years, or the duration of their contract. After four years, they can apply for a permanent residence status. If you're looking for a job, you are also allowed entry into Germany — on the condition that you can prove you're able to support yourself and that you speak sufficient German (B2 level). The new law also applies to foreigners seeking professional qualifications or a university degree in Germany. In addition, they must have obtained a diploma from a German school abroad or any other degree that qualifies them for university or professional education, and they must not be older than 25. After working for two years in Germany, people in this category can apply for permanent residence status. Foreign skilled workers who are older than 45 have to prove they earn a minimum of €3,685 per month in their German job, or possess adequate old-age retirement funds. Read the job description and make sure it is a match. If you are just leaving school don't apply to be company CEO. But at the same time don't sell yourself short. Companies are often overwhelmed with applications and initially spend at most five minutes with each candidate. If they don't quickly see a match, your application will end up in the "No" pile. Make sure you include everything that is requested in the job announcement. Always have all of your paperwork ready to send that way you won't go crazy searching for a lost piece of paper. You will most likely need a cover letter, CV, letters of reference, and pdf copies of school leaving certificates, university diplomas and other documents proving qualifications. Though creativity is often a good quality, there are some German conventions that you have to think about like including your birthdate, marital status — and most controversially — a headshot with your application. Photos have a long tradition in German CVs. It is no longer a requirement, but most HR professionals like to see one, if only to help them organize all applicants in their heads. Don't address your application "To whom it may concern" or "Dear Sir, dear Madame." Take the time to research the company and at least find the name of the human resources boss. It shows initiative and interest. Use the company's website or networking sites like LinkedIn or XING to find who you are looking for. Also make sure to add the company address to your letter. This is something that recruiters cannot stress enough — use spell check! It is easy, free and takes no time at all. Some personnel departments see simple spelling errors as an automatic deal breaker. Others are a bit more understanding, but it makes a really bad impression, especially when other applicants have taken this extra (simple) step to assure quality. Ask others for help or advice, especially if you are not from Germany or a native speaker. Have them proofread what you are sending and be open for their ideas. Even if your CV is in English, your cover letter should probably be in German. Employers will most likely guess you had help, but they will also know you care enough to hand in the best application possible. Lying on applications is a bad idea. Be yourself and be creative. The German job market is taking a less formal approach to how workers look. Tattoos, piercings and shorts used to be unacceptable is many work environments. Now even some police officers can show their tattoos while on official business. These welcome changes have a lot to do with digitization and a lack of qualified workers. Keep the format of your resume and letter of introduction consistent. This means font, spacing, headings, everything. These are the things recruiters see first and leave an impression. The content must also be consistent: dates, places, etc. all need to match up without major gaps. In general it's better to send more than too little. At the same time do not overwhelm HR with a 30-page pdf. This is an important life lesson, still many people ignore it when they post drunken photos or link to inappropriate material. Just imagine a future boss seeing what you post. Additionally, your networking profiles should be up-to-date and reflect a positive image and show that you are an appropriate candidate with the relevant experience for jobs you are looking for. Author: Timothy Rooks Special rules for special skills In sectors with an acute shortage of skilled professionals, the bar for emigrating to Germany has been lowered as well. Medical doctors, IT specialists or registered certified nurses, for example, don't need to have their qualifications recognized by German authorities as long as they can prove a minimum of five years of on-the-job experience. However, employers are obliged to take on financial responsibility for up to one year, including repatriation costs, for an employee whose contract has expired and who refuses to leave Germany voluntarily. InfoMigrants fact check: What's the new skilled immigration law in Germany? Family members are allowed Under the new law, qualified workers are also allowed to bring their spouses and minor children to Germany. But they must prove to be able to support their family members financially and must provide them with sufficient living space. They cannot receive state benefits such as social welfare payments. Welfare organizations including the Catholic charity Caritas have criticized the regulation, saying it would tear families apart. Those foreigners working in social occupations or the care sector wouldn't be able to meet the requirements for families, they said. Are refugees and asylum-seekers also welcome? In principle, the new regulations also apply to asylum-seekers and refugees, although politicians admit only very few of them would qualify for it, namely those granted exceptional leave to remain. Such foreigners with no residential status but who cannot be deported for various reasons are allowed to start training under certain conditions. They must have been working at least 35 hours a week for 18 months, and need to be able to support themselves. In addition, they must have sufficient command of the German language (B2 level) and must not have committed a criminal offense. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Y2pO Every day, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. Sign up for the newsletter here.