German security researchers discovered easily accessible, classified military information on a laptop sold on eBay. Security specialists from G Data, based in the western city of Bochum, bought a used Bundeswehr laptop for €90 ($100). On the computer were a series of documents, including instructions on how to destroy the LeFlaSys Ozelot air defence system. The LeFlaSys Ozelot is a mobile air defense missile system first deployed in 2001 and still in use today. The surface-to-air system is used to quickly react against air threats, protecting command centers and troops on the move. The files were marked "VS-Nur für den Dienstgebrauch" — the lowest level of secret classification. Read more: Prosecutors probe how Airbus got classified Bundeswehr files Unsecured system G Data security expert Tim Berghoff told DW the rugged, splash-proof computer weighed 5 kilograms (11 pounds) and was designed for field use. Berghoff said the device was probably made in the early 2000s and still ran well. "The notebook PC we acquired contains extensive technical information on the LeFlaSys system, including step-by-step instructions for operation as well as maintenance. Information on how to operate the target acquisition system, as well as the weapons platform itself, can be found on there, and, of course, instructions on how to destroy the entire system to prevent its use by enemy forces," Berghoff told DW. He and Alexandra Stehr, a developer in G Data's threat analysis team, created a bit-by-bit copy of the hard drive. "It was easy to access the information. The Windows login required no password. The login for the program that contained the documentation of the weapons system was protected with a very easy-to-guess password. From then on, you could freely browse through the documentation." The device was sold by a recycling firm from Bingen. Read more: German Defense Ministry 'illegally' wiped phone data of Ursula von der Leyen Frustrated soldiers and a defense system struggling to repair its way into a fully functioning military. And a new defense minister who will have to regain confidence from army representatives. Ageing helicopters have proved a big hurdle for the German military. The Bundeswehr has grounded all its 53 Tiger helicopters, after engineers said technical faults needed attention. Defense services were also forced to recall 22 Sea Lynx anti-submarine helicopters in 2014, confirming newspaper reports of malfunction. The Eurofighter is the German military's most modern fighter jet. As a result of a manufacturing error, only four of the 128 planes were in action in 2018. A pilot was killed in June 2019 when two Eurofighters collided in the northeastern state of Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, prompting fresh calls for further restrictions on the plane's use. Tornado fighters have been flying for over 40 years. CDU plans to replace the ageing planes were thrown into question by the center-left SPD in February 2019. But some officials claim flying the Tornado after 2030 could cost Germany around €8 billion ($9 billion) in repair costs. New Puma tanks for the German military came into use in 2018. Only 27 of the 71 Pumas were immediately ready for deployment — which prompted a fresh backlash against then Defense Secretary Ursula von der Leyen. New F125 frigates — but they are't ready yet. German plans to replace the old frigates stalled in 2018, due to there not being enough spare parts to make them seaworthy. Officials also said Germany would have to soon stop signing up to NATO and UN missions in the same year — the country just did not have enough ships spare. She has not been in the job long, but Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer has inherited a huge problem. Old equipment being grounded is now a regular and pressing occurrence. Former Defense Minister Ursula von der Leyen signed a deal to develop a "Future Combat Air System" in June — which is scheduled to replace Germany's air force by 2040. Author: Sven Pöhle / db Data should have been destroyed The Defense Ministry told German news magazine Der Spiegel, who first reported on the case, that the recycling firm was responsible for destroying the data. "The old computers used for LeFlaSys have all been decommissioned and sent for recycling with orders to erase or render existing storage media unusable," a spokeswoman told the news magazine. "It can be assumed that an error occurred during the recycling of the computer in question." It said the information recovered was not a serious data breach and did not give potential enemies critical information. The military is legally obligated to destroy all data before selling IT equipment. In 2019, a forest ranger from Upper Bavaria found classified instructions for the Mars mobile rocket artillery when he bought four laptops from an auction run by federal authorities. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Xem7