As Russia prepares for a sweeping constitutional reform, President Vladimir Putin hinted at running for president once again while addressing lawmakers on Tuesday. Commenting on the proposal to "remove limits for any person, any citizen, including the current president, and allow for taking part in the election in future" the 67-year-old strongman said such a move would be "possible in principle." In order for this to happen, Russia's citizens would need to support the constitutional changes, and the country's Constitutional Court would need to rule that resetting term limits would not be against Russia's constitution. He also indicated he would serve out his current term, which is set to expire in 2024. "Together, regardless of all other matters, we have managed to do a lot to make the country stronger," he said. "I'm convinced that we will do much more good together — in any case until 2024, and then we will see." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Z7rQ Support form woman cosmonaut The idea of resetting term limits was voiced by the pro-Putin United Russia deputy Valentina Tereshkova, a former cosmonaut and the first woman in space, during the parliamentary session on Tuesday. Addressing other Duma lawmakers, she asked "why should we spin our wheels and philosophize, why should we create some artificial constructions?" The current president should be given a legal option of running for the same office again "if the situation requires it, and most importantly, if the people want it," said the 83-year-old ruling party deputy. Following Putin's Duma speech, other United Russia lawmakers supported Tereshkova's proposal. DW correspondent in Moscow, Emily Sherwin, reports that opposition figures are preparing a rally against the "reset" of Putin's presidential terms. The chamber approved the constitutional reform bill in the second reading out of three readings on Tuesday, after it is amended by suggestions from Tereshkova and other deputies. The reform bill would give parliament more power, including the authority to name a prime minister, but also expand the role of Russia's State Council, currently a consultative body made up of the heads of Russia's regions  It would also introduce "faith in God" to Russia's constitution and specify marriage as a union between "a man and a woman." Many practical details of the overhaul remain unclear, with Putin's critics accusing the government of being intentionally vague to avoid scrutiny. The bill is very likely to pass through the Putin-dominated legislature, with the referendum on the constitutional changes expected in April. Staying in office until 2036 or forever? If the changes are approved, Putin would be able to stay in power until 2036. His Monday remarks come just weeks after he rejected the idea of a Soviet-style presidency for life. While meeting WWII veterans in his native city of St. Petersburg in January, Putin was asked by one of them if it was time to do away with term limits for presidents. In response, Putin said it would be be "very worrying to return to the situation we had in the mid-1980s when state leaders stayed in power, one by one, until the end of their days." "So thanks, but I think it would be better not to return to that situation," he said. The Russian strongman has maintained his grip to power since taking over from Boris Yeltsin in 2000. He served two terms as president before switching to prime minister in 2008 and returning as president in 2012 for two more terms. Putin is already the longest-serving Kremlin chief since Joseph Stalin, who ruled the now-defunct Soviet Union for 29 years. Every year on May 9, Russia celebrates the victory of the Soviet Union over Nazi Germany. At midnight on this day in 1945, the German act of capitulation was signed. The other Allied forces, such as France and the UK, celebrate Victory Day one day earlier on May 8. Russian Minister of Defense, Sergei Shoigu, presided over the parade as it rolled through Moscow's Red Square. Every year, the Russian military honors the iconic T-34 tank - the staple of Soviet tank forces in WWII - by having it lead the Victory Day parade. The tank is flanked by military quads which display flags with names of German-Soviet fronts. The 2018 Victory Day parade also marked 100 years since the founding of the Soviet Union's Red Army. The spectacle included some 13,000 troops, as well as a handful of military veterans marching together in perfect choreography. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who was in Moscow for a meeting with President Vladimir Putin, was also in attendance. The military also displayed its Iskander-M short-range missile launchers, which are capable of carrying nuclear warheads. With around 1,450 deployed nuclear warheads, Russia's nuclear arsenal surpasses the 1,350 warheads controlled by the US. Some 159 pieces of military hardware were displayed, including a missile-armed MiG-31 supersonic interceptor jet. Much of the newest equipment has been tested in the conflict in Syria, the Defense Ministry said. New equipment on display included drones, a de-mining robot and an unmanned tank. Despite the sunshine, a snow mobile from the Arctic Units even made its way through the streets. Russia has consistently argued that the Western Allies of WWII play down the role of the Soviet Union in defeating Nazi Germany. "Today people are trying to erase the feat of our people in saving Europe from slavery, from extinction, from the horrors of the Holocaust," Putin said, vowing to never let it happen. The president has painted himself politically as a defender of traditional Europe. In recent years, Russians have taken to marking the Victory Day by marching with the photos of their ancestors who fought in World War II. This year, the Kremlin chief also took part in the event with a picture of his father, Vladimir Spiridonovich Putin. The parade culminates with the military jet flyover. Russia's elite demonstration team Russkiye Vityazi (Russian Knights) fly MiG-29 and Su-30 jets in formation before releasing smoke in the colors of the Russian flag. Military might was not only on display at ground level during the celebrations in Red Square. Snipers also were on duty around the proceedings. Red Square sits in the heart of Moscow and is the location of the Kremlin, the official presidential residence. Author: Cristina Burack (dj) dj/ng (dpa, Interfax) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.