The world-famous Teatro La Fenice in Venice remains eerily quiet as the Dafne string quartet enters the stage. The musicians walk up and take a bow — despite the fact that there is no audience inside the massive concert hall, which can seat more than 1,000 people. As the four artists take their seats, violinist Federica Barbali can't help but chuckle at the awkward and unusual situation. For a moment, you can hear a pin drop throughout the stunning rococo theater, originally built in 1792; then the quartet starts to play Ludwig van Beethoven's String Quartet No.4, Op.18 No.4. And as the music fills the void, you're suddenly reminded of the fact that you're watching this event from the comfort of your home. The show must go on The Teatro La Fenice decided to live-stream the concert online, as Italy is effectively under a nationwide lockdown. Cultural events have been canceled throughout Italy and Europe in a bid to contain the spread of the coronavirus. But that doesn't mean that all public life has to stop; in order to ensure that cultural life continues, organizers are coming up with new formats to channel their events. On Twitter, the concert stream by the Teatro La Fenice is one of many things shared under the hashtag #iorestoacasa — which translates as "I'm staying home." Italians from across the country are using the hashtag to talk about their lives under quarantine conditions and to show solidarity with those who have been infected by the coronavirus. But there's also a sense of solidarity with the string quartet, performing under such unique circumstances. As the online audience continues to comment on the performance, mostly expressing their gratitude for the beautiful concert, one user reminds the other viewers that they are still watching a musical performance — by shushing them on the digital realm as if they were inside the theater. The Dafne string quartet is by far not the only group of classical musicians resorting to streaming as an alternative during these challenging times. The Symphony Orchestra of Giuseppe Verdi in Milan was also forced to play in front of an empty house earlier in March while streaming the concert online. Their chosen hashtag during the stream was perhaps a more poetic one: #Lamusicanonsiferma — the music won't end. In neighboring Switzerland meanwhile, the Lucerne Orchestra had to find a different solution. After returning from a tour in northern Italy last month, all musicians were placed under quarantine. Facing the reverse problem of having a full auditorium but no orchestra to play during a performance of Richard Strauss' opera "Salome," the organizers decided to offer a simple piano accompaniment instead. No country in the world was hit as badly by the coronavirus crisis as China, where the Shanghai Symphony Orchestra was also forced to cancel its shows. Instead of performing on stage, many of the musicians took to the Chinese social media hub WeChat, where they shared videos of their music practice at home, as well as instructional videos. Museums in China had already started sharing social media posts about their collections back in January in hopes of helping those under quarantine conditions overcome their boredom. Sustainable alternative? As the coronavirus outbreak is also hitting Germany, several theaters and concert houses decided to take precautions in accordance with regional guidelines on large public gatherings. In Cologne, the Gürzenich Orchestra canceled all events with an audience of more than 1,000 people following recommendations by German Health Minister Jens Spahn to that end. Geoffry Wharton, who was the concertmaster of the Gürzenich Orchestra for over 30 years, says that in his long-spanning career, he had never seen anything like the measures taken now. "I've witnessed cancellations before but nothing like this. The closest this actually came was to the experience I had on the 11th of September, 2001. Nobody knew that day what the proper thing to do was. They obviously thought about canceling the concert completely but the musicians were all there, so what they ended up doing was they changed the program. But even then, we didn't cancel," the US musician and composer told DW. Like the orchestras in Italy, the Gürzenich Orchestra also decided that instead of cancelling, it would also consider live-streaming as an option. Wharton says he was happy to see the orchestra try new things, as he followed a recent performance online in real time. However, he added that it might not be a sustainable solution in the long-run: "It was nice that they did it this way, but the thing is that people actually want to go to these concert halls to see shows. And when they have to stay at home for months instead, the model of live-streaming may not be a viable solution," Wharton said. "And this is where I worry about a lot of my colleagues and friends who are freelance. Nobody knows what's actually supposed to happen to freelance musicians with concerts that don't happen." Making tinned food appetizing may take some kitchen wizardry, but it's certainly not impossible. Why not up the ante when it comes to cuisine and also boost your body's defenses at the same time? You may be inspired to experiment with a sinus-clearing home made laksa, or whip together a tuna poke bowl with tinned sweetcorn and fresh ginger to give your immune system an extra boost. There's plenty that you can do to keep your body in fighting shape if you can't head to the gym. You can get your blood pumping with work-out or yoga tutorials online, or if you're looking to step things up a little, those tins of food now lining your pantry can make for great free weights. You could take the opportunity to roll up your sleeves and channel your excess energy into getting every corner of your home sparkling. It's also never been a better time to 'Marie Kondo' your life and clear out all that excess clutter. You might even free up some extra storage space for the year's supply of toilet paper now sitting in your bathroom. One club in Shanghai streamed DJ sets on TikTok so that viewers could participate in "cloud raves" from home. If you're disappointed about cancelled concerts or heated live debates and want to feel like you're not missing out, keep an eye out for live-streamed events on social media. Binge-watching the latest TV shows is a guaranteed way to get your mind off things. Perhaps the mini-series "Chernobyl" may put things in perspective if you're only feeling the doom and gloom perpetuated by the news. Alternatively, if you're after something lighter as a pick-me-up, you can just spend 6 hours and 20 minutes a day watching "Friends" to finish all 236 episodes in 14 days. All this free time may give you the chance to blow the dust off some old board games and challenge your quarantine comrades to a round. It'll help fend off boredom and lift your spirits while you wait things out. If you're quarantined solo, most classic games have mobile app versions on which you can play against friends online. Still not having fun? This suggestion is sure to change that. By the time we're all back at work and have caught up with the backlog, tax time will be upon us again before we expect. Take the time to get your ducks in a row to save yourself the stress later on, but feel free to take a rest if it's all too exciting. These days, you can learn almost anything online. If you've been thinking about learning to code, or perhaps even picking up a language like German (hint hint), online providers have made it easy and often free, so there's no excuse not to put your free time to good use. If your relatives complain about only seeing you during the holidays, it's a good time to give them a ring. While you may find yourself stuck on the line for an hour or two, they'll appreciate the surprise check-in. If you haven't already, it's also a good idea to make sure that they're looked after and are staying healthy in what's a particularly risky situation for older people. Holiday planning is a nice way to escape your apartment, even if it's only imaginatively. Fill your time daydreaming about relaxing in Bali or taking in some clean, virus particle-free air in the alps somewhere while giving yourself something to look forward to once the situation subsides. Just don't forget to book travel insurance because you never know what the next crisis situation will be. Author: Sean Goodwin