Queen Elizabeth II arrived at an event dedicated to the Commonwealth on Monday, with Prince Harry and Meghan to appear at the Westminster Abbey alongside Prince Charles, Prince William and other key members of the British royal family. The annual church service marks the last scheduled public event for Harry and Meghan before they officially give up their position as working members of the royal family. While seated in the church, the Duke and Duchess of Sussex did not take part in the procession that involved the 93-year-old queen walking through the building followed by other royals. Prime Minister Boris Johnson also made an appearance and read the Parable of the Good Samaritan, a story extolling the virtue of mercy, from the New Testament at the medieval church. Anthony Joshua, the British-born heavyweight boxing champion of Nigerian heritage, also spoke at the event. The 30-year-old athlete praised diversity reflected in the Commonwealth community, which incorporates 2.4 billion people in 54 countries. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3W9RI New life in Canada Prince Harry, 35, is the younger son of Prince Charles, making him sixth in line for the British throne. He married American actress Meghan Markle in May 2018. Rumors of conflict within the royal family soon appeared in the British press, and in January this year, the couple made a shock announcement that they would be stepping down for their senior roles. It was later confirmed that they would give up some of the income and perks awarded to them by the British taxpayers. The couple is set to move to Canada and "work to become financially independent," according to their statement in January. The exact degree of their independence and planned sources of income remain unclear. The Canadian government has already stated they will not pay for the royals' security after they step down. Read more: #Megxit: Twitter reacts to Meghan and Harry's announcement Harry and his wife, 38, would no longer bear the "royal highness" titles, although the 35-year-old would still be considered a prince and referred to as the Duke of Sussex. He is also set to maintain his place in the succession chain. US TV actor Meghan Markle and Prince Harry, sixth-in-line to the British throne, met in July 2016 after they were introduced through friends. In September 2017, she told "Vanity Fair": "We're in love." They married less than 10 months later. In May 2019, Meghan gave birth to their first child, Archie. Now the couple has surprised the world by announcing that they'd leave their functions as royals. Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's wedding was the focus of a media frenzy months ahead of the event, held on May 19, 2018. The traditional royal ceremony included for the first time elements of African American culture, such as a gospel choir, in reference to Meghan's roots. Several high profile Hollywood celebrities were among the guests — friends of the former actress. Prince Harry and Markle were photographed holding hands for the first time in September 2017, during a wheelchair tennis competition at the Invictus Games in Toronto, Canada. The games for disabled or wounded soldiers and veterans were created by Harry. The youngest son of Prince Charles and the late princess Diana, Prince Henry of Wales — familiarly known as Prince Harry — was born in 1984. His childhood was dominated by his parents' messy divorce and Diana's tragically early death. The family is shown pictured together in 1995, with Harry on the left side next to his mother, and his brother Prince William next to their father. Princess Diana died in a car crash in Paris in 1997. Harry was only 12 at the time, and his brother William, 15. This iconic picture shows the young princes bowing their heads as their mother's coffin is carried out of Westminster Abbey. The tragic event deeply affected Prince Harry. Harry publicly revealed how much he had struggled throughout his life. In support of a mental health campaign, he revealed in an interview with the "Daily Telegraph" that he came "very close to a complete breakdown on numerous occasions." He added: "Shutting down all of my emotions for the last 20 years has had a quite serious effect on not only my personal life, but also my work as well." The impulsive prince appears to have inherited his mother's ability to connect with people, as well as her sense of mischief. Often photographed with different attractive women, he was long labelled a "playboy." He once told Newsweek that he "wanted out" of the Royal Family. Photographs of him wearing a swastika at a costume party that were published in 2005 caused outrage. That same year, he entered the army, as many other royals have done, and spent 10 years serving in the British forces. He later admitted that his military service "was the best escape I've ever had" from the constant public attention. Following his military career through which he served twice in Afghanistan, Harry has turned into one of Britain's most popular royals, not just within the country, but globally. Like his mother, he uses his public profile to raise awareness for different causes, including a recent campaign about mental health with William and Kate. Britain barely knew who Meghan Markle was when her name started appearing on newspapers' front pages in October 2017. Born in 1981 in Los Angeles, as an actor she portrayed a lawyer in the hit TV show "Suits." News coverage on Prince Harry's girlfriend was hard-hitting, however, including comment pieces with "racial undertones" and "outright sexism and racism" online, said Harry's office. Part of the criticism came in connection with her former marriage with film producer Trevor Engelson, from 2010 to 2013. Markle also had her own lifestyle blog, thetig.com, which she shut down after she came into the royal family's spotlight. On it, she had proudly declared her independence: "I've never wanted to be a lady who lunches — I've always wanted to be a woman who works," she wrote. Like the prince, Markle does humanitarian work. She's an ambassador for the Canadian charity "World Vision Canada," which works for children in developing countries, and she also campaigns for women's rights with the UN. The actress has a degree in communications. Author: Elizabeth Grenier dj/stb (AP, dpa) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.