Read more:Germany's Angela Merkel calls for people to avoid social contact Updates in Universal Coordinated Time (UTC/GMT) 05:48 Turkish health authorities have confirmed the second case of COVID-19 in Turkey. 04:30 Singapore's health ministry issued travel advisories against all non-essential travel and introduced border restrictions for Italy, France, Spain and Germany. 04:20 Australia's Prime Minister Scott Morrison is holding a press conference on measures that the government is planning to tackle coronavirus. He issued a level three travel warning, meaning only essential travel should be undertaken "regardless of your destination, age or health," Prime Minister Scott Morrison said. He also advised that organized non-essential public gatherings of more than 500 people from next week should be canceled saying it was a "common sense precaution." Morrison suggested there could be further measures put in place in the future. The advice does not include schools, airports or public transport. 04:01 China's Vice Industry Minister Xin Guobin said that auto parts makers in Hubei province are resuming production. 03:50 China reported a total of eight new coronavirus cases on Thursday — its lowest number since daily reporting of infections began seven weeks ago. Its National Health Commission counted seven new deaths of patients infected with the virus. Five of the new cases and six of the deaths were recorded in Hubei province, the epicenter of the outbreak. 03:30 Mass gatherings of over 500 people could be banned in Australia, following advice given to premiers, chief ministers and the prime minister by the country's chief medical officer. The leaders are currently considering that advice at a meeting in Sydney. 03:20 Hong Kong confirmed the death of a fourth patient from coronavirus at Nethersole Eastern Hospital. 03:10 Here's a summary of schools closures announced by authorities across Europe: France will close all schools, high schools and kindergartens from Monday. Belgium and Portugal both became the latest countries on Thursday evening to also order school closures, while schools and universities will remain shut across hardest-hit Italy. Germany appears the exception to the rule in western Europe, with partial school closures in place, but no blanket ban yet. Read more: Coronavirus: The psychology behind panic-buying 02:59 The Mormon Church is suspending all public ceremonies and gatherings worldwide. The suspension will continue until further notice. "Where possible, leaders should conduct any essential leadership meetings via technology," said a letter published by the church to its members. 02:30 A Philippine diplomat in New York has become the first recorded case at the UN headquarters. The diplomat works at the UN General Assembly's Sixth Committee, which deals with legal matters. Making tinned food appetizing may take some kitchen wizardry, but it's certainly not impossible. Why not up the ante when it comes to cuisine and also boost your body's defenses at the same time? You may be inspired to experiment with a sinus-clearing home made laksa, or whip together a tuna poke bowl with tinned sweetcorn and fresh ginger to give your immune system an extra boost. There's plenty that you can do to keep your body in fighting shape if you can't head to the gym. You can get your blood pumping with work-out or yoga tutorials online, or if you're looking to step things up a little, those tins of food now lining your pantry can make for great free weights. You could take the opportunity to roll up your sleeves and channel your excess energy into getting every corner of your home sparkling. It's also never been a better time to 'Marie Kondo' your life and clear out all that excess clutter. You might even free up some extra storage space for the year's supply of toilet paper now sitting in your bathroom. One club in Shanghai streamed DJ sets on TikTok so that viewers could participate in "cloud raves" from home. If you're disappointed about cancelled concerts or heated live debates and want to feel like you're not missing out, keep an eye out for live-streamed events on social media. Binge-watching the latest TV shows is a guaranteed way to get your mind off things. Perhaps the mini-series "Chernobyl" may put things in perspective if you're only feeling the doom and gloom perpetuated by the news. Alternatively, if you're after something lighter as a pick-me-up, you can just spend 6 hours and 20 minutes a day watching "Friends" to finish all 236 episodes in 14 days. All this free time may give you the chance to blow the dust off some old board games and challenge your quarantine comrades to a round. It'll help fend off boredom and lift your spirits while you wait things out. If you're quarantined solo, most classic games have mobile app versions on which you can play against friends online. Still not having fun? This suggestion is sure to change that. By the time we're all back at work and have caught up with the backlog, tax time will be upon us again before we expect. Take the time to get your ducks in a row to save yourself the stress later on, but feel free to take a rest if it's all too exciting. These days, you can learn almost anything online. If you've been thinking about learning to code, or perhaps even picking up a language like German (hint hint), online providers have made it easy and often free, so there's no excuse not to put your free time to good use. If your relatives complain about only seeing you during the holidays, it's a good time to give them a ring. While you may find yourself stuck on the line for an hour or two, they'll appreciate the surprise check-in. If you haven't already, it's also a good idea to make sure that they're looked after and are staying healthy in what's a particularly risky situation for older people. Holiday planning is a nice way to escape your apartment, even if it's only imaginatively. Fill your time daydreaming about relaxing in Bali or taking in some clean, virus particle-free air in the alps somewhere while giving yourself something to look forward to once the situation subsides. Just don't forget to book travel insurance because you never know what the next crisis situation will be. Author: Sean Goodwin 02:15 A dog in Hong Kong thought to be a carrier for the COVID-19 virus has been found not to be infected. The dog's owner tested positive and officials initially thought that they had found the first transmission from human to animal after the dog showed a "weak positive" after first undergoing a test. 02:05 The Canadian prime minister's communications director Cameron Ahmad published a "personal message" from Sophie Gregoire Trudeau in both French and English after it was confirmed she tested positive for COVID-19. "Although I'm experiencing uncomfortable symptoms of the virus, I will be back on my feet soon. Being in quarantine is nothing compared to other Canadian families who might be going through this and for those facing more serious health concerns," wrote Sophie Trudeau. 01:58 Sophie Trudeau, the wife of Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, has tested positive for COVID-19. Communications director Cameron Ahmad published a statement saying Sophie Trudeau will remain in isolation while the prime minister, who is also in isolation, "will continue to fully assume his duties." 01:35 Portugal is closing all schools two weeks before the semester is due to end. 01:30 South Korea, the country with the fourth highest number of cases, reported 110 new cases, taking its total up to 7,979 cases. Read more: South Korea church leader apologizes for coronavirus spread 01:26 Argentina is closing borders to travelers from high-risk areas. Flights from Europe, the US, Japan, China and Iran will be stopped for 30 days, said President Alberto Fernandez. Anyone who traveled to the country from epidemic areas during the last two weeks will have to be quarantined for 14 days. 01:14 House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and the Trump administration are close to an agreement on a coronavirus aid package for workers, families and businesses impacted by the virus. Pelosi said she expects the announcement on the package to be announced on Friday. Read more: US restricts travel from EU: What you need to know 00:55 Coronavirus has been bad for sports, with many major sporting events canceled, including the F1 Australian Grand Prix. London-based soccer team Arsenal's squad are in quarantine after their head coach tested positive for the virus. 00:40 Walt Disney World Resort in Orlando, Florida and Disneyland Paris will be closed from Sunday until the end of the month. There have been no confirmed cases of the virus in staff at the theme parks. Disney Cruise Line is suspending all new departures from Saturday. The Walt Disney Company also delayed the release of movies including "Mulan" and House of Mouse titles "New Mutants" and "Antlers." 00:30 Saudi Arabia detected 17 new cases of coronavirus bringing its total up to 45 cases. Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro was tested after his top communication aide was confirmed to have the virus 00:10 Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro is expecting test results back within "hours," after his senior communications aide tested positive for COVID-19. His son, Eduardo Bolsonaro tweeted that the president is not displaying any symptoms of the disease. Bolsonaro also told his supporters to refrain from holding political rallies to prevent the spread of COVID-19. A demonstration was planned on Sunday to press for Congress to approve Bolsonaro's latest legislative agenda. 00:05  Tokyo stocks opened down more than 5% on Friday after global markets saw their worst day on Thursday since 1987. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3ZKJL kmm/dr (Reuters, AFP, AP, dpa) Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.