Call it human, a natural instinct — our species is desperate to understand and control nature, if not the entire universe. And we do it with numbers. The ancient Greeks were the first "real mathematicians," says Eli Maor, a retired professor of the history of mathematics and author of Music by the Numbers. Eli Maor, professor of history of mathematics and life-long music lover Led in large part by Pythagoras, their motto, as it were, was "numbers rule the universe." They looked at the cosmos as a single "unity of music, astronomy, geometry and number theory, which they called arithmetic," says Maor. "Music was ranked equal to science and they used it to explain the orbits of the planets and stars." The cult of math The Pythagoreans were a cult. They swore to keep their discussions secret. As a result, little or no written records survived. But we do know that Pythagoras experimented with vibrating strings. He found that if you divide a string by a ratio of 2:1, 3:2 or 4:3, and pluck the string, as you would on a guitar or violin, the resulting notes have a "harmonious relationship." They are in consonance. Read more: In-App Purchases: a mobile app developer's key to 'consumer lock-in' Pythagoras and his followers believed numbers ruled the universe "And from that he made this huge leap of faith to say that the whole universe ran according to these simple numbers," says Maor. The idea influenced science "negatively," says Maor, for a few thousand years, right up until the astronomers Johannes Kepler and Galileo Galilei came along. "Kepler was a Pythagorean. A true believer. I dare say that 30 years of his short life were wasted, searching for the orbit of the planets in musical laws of harmony," Maor says. "Finally, he realized the idea was wrong." That didn't stop a group of scientists at Yale University in the 1970s, among them Willie Ruff, a jazz musician and musicologist, from turning Kepler's inaudible planetary calculations into sound using computer synthesis. More math in digital music "Everything is math when you get down to it. My talking to you now is being mediated through mathematical operations on ones and zeros," says Matt Black, a musician and creative software pioneer, who has a background in science. "And people say music is basically mathematics — like harmony, relationship. I was never very good at math, I was into chemistry," says Black, "but I do have that respect for it. Math underlies everything." In February, Black's music label, Ninja Tune, released an iPad app for digital music production and performance called Jamm Pro. Read more: One Thousand Hear Change of Note in World's Longest Concert As a piece of computer software, it relies heavily on math. But it's also got mathematical principles built right into the user interface. It has as a X/Y pad that lets you influence sounds by moving your finger up and down, and left and right. "We talk about hand-eye coordination. This is hand-eye-ear coordination. I might not know I'm controlling the bit crusher [a sound effect] but my ears tell me 'Oh, that sounds good,' and the more I move my finger to the left, the more extreme the sound gets, I can add dynamics to the sound," says Black. The key is coming home to harmony Now think back to Pythagoras. His theory of universal harmony may have failed, but his ratios live on. A ratio of 2:1 gives you an octave — two of the same note, with one pitched at double the frequency of the other. A ratio of 3:2, meanwhile, gives you a perfect fifth — from the root to the "top note" of a basic "major triad" chord. The human ear yearns for such familiar structures, sounds that resolve, or "frames of reference," as Maor puts it. It's a tonality that gives us harmony — perhaps a similar sense of harmony to that which Pythagoras saw in the stars. Tonality was a guiding principle in music from around 1600. The idea being that music was confined to a certain key and if it deviated, it had to return to that key. The 20th century philosopher and music theorist, Theodor Adorno, was an advocate of "Die Neue Musik" (the new music), developed by composers like Arnold Schoenberg But by 1900, composers such as Arnold Schoenberg and theorists like Theodor Adorno thought tonality had "run its course," says Maor. Albert Einstein with Arnold Schoenberg (right) and Composer Leopold Godowsky at Carnegie Hall, 1934 "Schoenberg set about replacing it with atonal music — serial music or 12 tone music — that had no key. It reminds me of Einstein's Theory of Relativity, because the frames of reference are all equal." As with Pythagoras before him, Schoenberg's was another attempt, according to Maor, to "subjugate music to mathematical laws." Serial music is often called dissonant, or just plain unlistenable. The mathematical idea is that every piece should contain all the 12 semitones of an octave, but that none should repeat in a series. "I tried listening to Schoenberg's String Quartett five times," says Maor. "I looked for a frame of reference but couldn't find it." In Schoenberg and Adorno's defense, their aim was more than mathematical. They wanted to reflect the increasingly industrial, non-harmonic world around them, describe the universe as they saw it in art. Which is sort of what the Pythagoreans had hoped to do before them. Interfacing with the world Others followed the serialists. Steve Reich, Philip Glass, John Cage, Karlheinz Stockhausen and the musique concrète. "Music is an attempt to interface with whatever environment you're in, to make sense of it, and as the environment has become increasingly industrial and techno, that music has come to the fore in our attempt to understand our environment, how we're changing, and humanity is evolving," says Black. "To become a more techno-human-cyborg hybrid. To me, techno is that sound: a conversation between man and machine." But there's no getting around it — the most timeless music is less extreme, a careful balance between harmony and dissonance, science and art, order and chaos. Read more: The world is music: John Cage John Cage's composition 4'33'', consisted of incidental, environmental sounds. The orchestra were instructed to not play their instruments for 4 minutes and 33 seconds. "I think everything is a balance between order and chaos," says Black. "If you think of a sine wave [a smooth periodic oscillation in sound], a sine wave is an example of perfect order, it's a completely repetitive signal, and boring because you can predict it. White noise, on the other hand, is complete chaos. Chaos is full of information but it's shapeless, and it's not very useable. And I think life and consciousness exist at that phase-transition between order and chaos, at the meeting point." Too much order is stasis, says Black, boring, nothing interesting ever happens. And when there's too much chaos,  nothing has a chance to coalesce or organize because it gets torn to pieces. "A groove or a piece of music is something that has structure and some amount of repetition to seize onto as a pattern — humans are hungry for pattern, meaning — but music must also evolve and change, because life is like that. So, I see that music is a model of this relationship between order and chaos." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/1DRCB An obsession to control nature As systems, math and music are imperfect. But math likes to think of itself as pure — a system we've developed to explain, calculate and control nature. But if we could do that fully, "we'd be God," says Black. Music, on the other hand, allows some imperfection, dissonance. We don't need to understand or control it fully. We can feel it. And perhaps that's why legions of top scientists play instruments, purely for the love of it. "I have always considered and experienced music as a counterpart to my scientific interests," says Reinhard Brinkmann, an accelerator physicist at the German Electron Synchrotron (DESY), who plays a mean jazz piano (this writer can vouch for it). "Music has helped me stay healthy, mentally, and that's motivated me in my work." Albert Einstein played violin, it's said, because it helped him think. But he played a beautiful Mozart, too. Which was, incidentally, Maor's favorite composer growing up. "We are obsessed with controlling things," he says. "We think any unusual phenomenon has to have some reason, and that reason is based on numbers. But music was created to move our souls, to touch our feelings, our emotions. And that's why most attempts to subjugate music to math have failed." Eli Maor plays clarinet. Every summer, Salzburg becomes a showcase for stars and celebrities — especially in 2020, as the Salzburg Festival is turning 100! Last year nearly 200 concerts, opera and theatre performances in just 43 days attract more than a quarter of a million visitors from more than 80 countries to Austria's fourth-largest city. The festival’s 2020 program will be made public on November 13, 2019. The festival opens every year with "Jedermann" (pictured) on Cathedral Square. The production of this play in 1917 also marked the birth of the festival and has become its trademark since then. In addition to Cathedral Square, the Festspielhaus (Large Playhouse) and the Felsenreitschule (Riding School) are its best-known venues. In 2020, actor Tobias Moretti (left) gets a new female paramour. Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart first saw the light of day at Getreidegasse 9 (left in the picture) in 1756. Now there is a museum in the family’s original living quarters. Mozart fans can see a second Mozart residence just around the corner, where he lived as an adult while serving as concertmaster until he turned his back on the city and moved to Vienna. It's always worth looking up: The delicate, playful wrought-iron guild signs above the shops and pubs are an optical highlight in Getreidegasse. Salzburg's soul is in its cafés — with their tempting sweet specialties: Salzburger Nockerln, a kind of baked soufflé, and Mozartkugeln, small, round chocolates filled with nougat and marzipan. As in Mozart's time, the Old Town is shaped by its narrow lanes and spacious squares. One of the loveliest is Kapitelplatz, Chapter Square. High above it towers the symbol of the city, Hohensalzburg Fortress, one of the largest medieval fortified castles in Europe. Since 1996 the Old Town has been a UNESCO World Heritage site. In the 16th century, Salzburg's prince-archbishops had the DomQuartier district with its Residenz palace and St. Peter's Abbey rebuilt in Italian Baroque style to display their prestige and power. Their aim was to create a “Rome of the North.” Salzburg Cathedral is now considered a major innovation: the first early Baroque church building north of the Alps. Hellbrunn Palace was one of the Salzburg prince-archbishops' prestige-building projects. This masterpiece of hydraulic engineering, with its water-powered automata and trick fountains, attracts 300,000 visitors a year and leaves none of them dry. The old trees that line Hellbrunner Allee, which runs through its park, provide a habitat for rare beetles, bats and woodpeckers. Engaged couples queue up in front of Mirabell Palace on summer weekends for the privilege of saying “I do” in its Marble Hall. Prince-Archbishop Wolf Dietrich had this pleasure palace built 1606 as a love token for his mistress, Salome Alt. The park provides a vista that reaches as far as Hohensalzburg Fortress, framed by an alpine panorama. On the steep cliffs of the Mönchberg, one of Salzburg's three local mountains, the puristic architecture of this museum of modern art challenges the Baroque of the Old Town. The museum focuses on modern Austrian graphic and photographic works. Its terrace provides one of the loveliest views of Salzburg. Airplanes, racing cars and delicious food: Since 2003, Austrian billionaire Dietrich Mateschitz has been sharing his passions with the public. In Hangar-7, a unique glass and steel structure, Mozart operas and TV shows take place in the middle of his historical aircraft collection. The event location also houses a gourmet restaurant and bars — all with a view of the Alps. Salzburg isn't just for classical music lovers: There's plenty of partying and dance music at the Electric Love Festival, which has taken in early July since 2013. In 2020, the festival will be from 9–11 July. On the Salzburgring race track, usually used for motorsport events, 120 DJs appear on five stages. It's considered Austria's most important electronic music festival. Author: Frederike Müller (ms)