Read more: What you need to know about the coronavirus Updates in Universal Coordinated Time (UTC/GMT) 23:58 A 64 year old patient in Argentina died due to the coronavirus, the first such death in Latin America. 23:47 Washington D.C. has recorded its first case of coronavirus. Another case came up in New Jersey, where the affected person had attended the Conservative Political Action Conference in Maryland, Washington. 23:22 An 80 year old man in Sydney has died after testing positive for Covid-19. The number of cases in Australia has risen to 70, and this is the third death. 23:14 Canada said that there has been an outbreak at a long-term care home in North Vancouver. Two elderly residents were detected with the virus in the home. A total of six new cases have been detected in British Columbia. 22:51 Slovenia has prohibited all indoor public events with over 500 people from Saturday. The country has 12 confirmed cases of coronavirus. 22:29 New York has declared a state of emergency in an effort to control spread of the coronavirus, governor Andrew Cuomo said. Washington, Utah Maryland and California have already declared an emergency, as cases continue to rise throughout the US. A subway station shows information about caution from the Covid-19 in New York. 22:23 People arriving to Bahrain from South Korea, Italy, Egypt and Lebanon have been asked to self-quarantine for two weeks, the health ministry said in a tweet. 22:14 A cruise ship that may have shared crew with the virus-hit Diamond Princess is currently being tracked, US Vice President Mike Pence said after a meeting with cruise line industry officials. He did not identify the ship that is being tracked. 21:11 Bavaria's Lutheran Church Council has advised on the importance of hygiene during the Eucharist, ahead of Sunday services. They also advised in a press release that people should avoid touching money when passing it into the alms bowl during ceremonies, and shaking hands with each other or with the priest — a key part of many services — was not advised. Read more: South Korea church leader apologizes for coronavirus spread 20:18 Two residents of a North Vancouver nursing home in British Columbia have tested positive for coronavirus, taking the total number of cases in Canada to 51. 20:00 US officials say two more people have died from COVID-19 in Washington state, raising the death toll in the country to 19. 19:44 Italy will enact tough measures to limit the spread of coronavirus, including telling people not to enter or leave the hard-hit region of Lombardy and 11 provinces in other regions, according to Reuters news agency. Schools in the areas covered by the decree will remain shut until at least April 3. All museums, gyms and swimming pools will also be closed and leave for health care workers is to be canceled. It's one of the most widespread greetings in the business world. But will the traditional handshake go out of style? Health experts recommend avoiding it to reduce the risk of contracting the coronarvirus. Germany's interior minister took that advice seriously and refused to shake Chancellor Angela Merkel's hand. They both laughed and Merkel threw her hand up in the air before taking a seat. France's government has advised its citizens to cut back on the traditional "bise" — greeting by kissing others on both cheeks. But French President Emmanuel Macron nevertheless gave the double-kiss greeting to Italian Premier Giuseppe Conte during a summit in Naples this week, symbolically demonstrating that he didn't fear contact with the neighboring country affected by a coronavirus surge. It's a gesture that was first popularized by baseball and basketball players in the US. About 50% fewer bacteria are transferred by high-fiving than by shaking hands — meaning that it's still not completely risk-free. Commonly used in sports, the greeting was also popularized by former US President Obama, shown here with Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg. Beyond the coolness factor, the fist bump transmits significantly fewer germs than shaking hands — about 90% less according to one study. Hugging is another way to spread germs, but research has also shown that the warm embrace of a loved one may strengthen the immune system — and in some cases, it can boost diplomatic ties. This hug between South Korean President Moon Jae-in and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un in 2018 triggered various reactions on both sides of the border. They had previously opted for the more formal handshake. Australia's New South Wales Health Minister Brad Hazzard recommends this gesture: "It's time that Aussies actually gave each other a pat on the back for the time being — no handshaking," he said. While it transmits less bacteria than the previously mentioned forms of greetings, the pat on the back can be perceived as condescending by some people. Queen Elizabeth and Prince Philip wave here from the balcony of Buckingham Palace. The original gesture derived from a 18th-century tradition of knights saluting each other after removing the guard of their helmets to reveal their identity and show that they were coming in peace. Waving can, however, be seen as offensive in some countries. In China, where the COVID-19 outbreak began, one greeting recommendation is the traditional gong shou gesture, or the fist and palm salute, as demonstrated above by actress Miya Muqi at the Cannes screening of "Ash Is The Purest White" in 2018. A slight bow with palms pressed together in a prayer-like position: The Thai wai greeting is widespread in various southeast Asian countries — also known as the Indian namaste or the Burmese mingalar par. Similarly safe, Japan's traditional sign of salutation and reverence still belongs to everyday life. Learning to bow elegantly is an important part of becoming a respectable adult. Here, employees of a department store in Tokyo practice their greeting ahead of the start of a New Year sale. A recent viral video from China shows yet another alternative to the handshake: the "footshake," also dubbed the "Wuhan handshake." Rubbing dirty feet is still safer than touching hands... Probably the easiest way to greet someone without sharing germs and making a faux pas is to look the other person in the eyes, smile and say hello. Author: Elizabeth Grenier 19:24 Greece announced 21 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, bringing the country's total number of confirmed infections to 66. 19:16 The IIHF has canceled the Women's World Ice Hockey Championships in Canada due to the coronavirus outbreak. The tournament was slated to run March 31 to April 10 in Halifax and Truro. 18:38 The number of confirmed cases of COVID-19 in France has risen to 949, with 16 deaths. 18:28 The European Central Bank has asked its 3,700 employees based in Frankfurt, Germany to work from home on Monday in order to test its emergency plan for confinement. 18:03 Egypt has confirmed a further 33 cases of COVID-19 on a cruise ship in quarantine on the Nile River, the country's health minister told reporters. A total of 45 people have tested positive for coronavirus. 17:50 Paraguay's Health Ministry has announced the country's first confirmed case of COVID-19 17:14  Italy has announced its death toll from the novel coronavirus rose by 36 to 233 on Saturday, with the total number of cases increasing by a record 1,247 to 5,833. Read more: Coronavirus in sub-Saharan Africa: A week in review 16:44 South Africa has confirmed its second case of COVID-19. Sub-Saharan Africa has so far not been as badly affected by the outbreak, with only a handful of countries reporting confirmed cases. However, the global market downturn could spell disaster for business in developing countries. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3YzYx 16:39 The number of cases in Germany rose from 684 to 795 during the course of Saturday, the Robert Koch Institute has announced. 16:22 A US Navy officer stationed in Italy has been diagnosed with coronavirus, according to the US European Command. The service member was stationed in Naples and is currently "restricted to their residence." The US European Command has around 70,000 personnel stationed in 51 countries. 16:15 Berlin police department reported that an officer has tested positive for COVID-19. "He did not become infected at work. The division in question is at their quarters," the police department wrote on Twitter. "Our service will not be affected!" 16:06 Maldives health officials confirmed that two patients have tested positive for COVID-19. 15:25 The number of infected people in the UK has risen by 43 to 206, authorities reported. 14:33 Another cruise ship has been quarantined, this time on the Nile in Egypt. More than 150 tourists and a local crew have been told to stay on board a boat near Luxor after 12 people tested positive for the virus. Similar measures, aboard the Diamond Princess cruise ship in Japan in February, were described as a "failure" after 540 people were infected. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Xz5Y 14:10 A hotel in the Chinese city of Quanzhou — in eastern Fujian province — has collapsed, trapping about 70 people. The hotel near the country's southeast coast was reportedly being used as a quarantine facility. About two dozen people have been pulled alive from the rubble. Video shared by China's Xinhua state news agency showed rescue workers combing the collapsed building. Read more: China: 'Coronavirus quarantine' hotel collapses, trapping dozens 13:30 Dutch authorities say the country has now registered 188 cases. 13:17 Another passenger who was on board the Diamond Princess cruise ship has died, bringing the total death toll from the ship to seven, according to Japanese broadcaster NHK. Read more: Italy to give Diamond Princess coronavirus quarantine captain its highest honor 13:15 The Pope will be keeping his distance from worshippers, the Vatican has announced. On Sunday he will address worshippers from the window of the Apostolic Library rather than in St. Peter's Square. His prayer will then be live-streamed onto screens in the square. "I wish to express again my closeness to those who are ill with the coronavirus and to healthcare workers who are caring for them," Pope Francis wrote on Twitter on Friday. 13:12 France says it now has 716 confirmed cases, while 11 people have died. 12:20 The leader of Italy's co-ruling Democratic Party Nicola Zingaretti said on Saturday that he had tested positive for the novel coronavirus. "I have coronavirus too," Zingaretti said in a video posted on Facebook. Italy has been the European country that's hardest hit by the virus, with a total of 4,636 cases and 197 deaths as of Friday. "I'm fine but I will have to stay home for the next few days," the politician wrote on Twitter. "Courage to all and see you soon!" 11:40 Iran says 21 more people have died from COVID-19, bringing the country's death toll to 145. More than 1,000 infections were also confirmed overnight, bringing the total to some 5,823 cases nationwide. Iran is the country in the Middle East that had been most badly affected by the disease South Korea — the hardest-hit country after China — said it had recorded 448 new cases on Saturday, making a total of 7,041. Seoul also reported four more deaths, raising the death toll to 48. 11:16 Malta's first case of the novel coronavirus has been detected in a 12-year-old Italian girl who lives there, Health Minister Chris Fearne said on Saturday. The girl tested positive for the COVID-19 virus early on Saturday and is receiving treatment in an infectious diseases unit. 10:00 Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte will declare a public health emergency to help contain the spread of the new coronavirus, after the country recorded its first case of community transmission, officials said on Saturday. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3X9pU 09:45 An Iranian lawmaker, 55-year-old Fatemeh Rahbar, died from COVID-19 on Saturday, state news agency IRNA reported. She is the second lawmaker killed by the virus in Iran and one of seven politicians and government officials who have died in the outbreak since the country reported its first cases in mid-February. Read more: Could Iran become a new coronavirus epicenter? 07:52 US officials have yet to decide on where to allow the cruise ship Grand Princess, with 21 virus cases aboard, to dock in California. President Donald Trump said he would have preferred not to let the passengers disembark onto American soil but would defer to the recommendations of medical experts. Meanwhile, 15 US citizens have been quarantined in a hotel in Bethlehem over COVID-19 fears, said the Palestinian government. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Yxk7 07:30 The spread of the new COVID-19 virus is straining Germany's complex healthcare system. The number of confirmed cases in the country has risen to 684, according to the Robert Koch Institute. To understand more about the kind of pressure Germany's healthcare system is currently facing, read this piece: Coronavirus in Germany: Health care system under pressure 06:16 The number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in Afghanistan has jumped to four, Reuters reported, citing the country's health ministry. Of these, three cases have been registered in western Herat province, officials said. The province borders neighboring Iran, one of the countries worst affected by the virus outside of China, with over 4,000 cases and more than 100 deaths. 05:08 The coronavirus death toll in the United States rose to 17. Two deaths were reported in the southern state of Florida, and four more deaths were reported in Washington state, the epicenter of the outbreak, where 14 people have died. 03:44 Chinese exports this year have fallen 17.4%, the biggest drop since February of last year when the US-China trade war was heating up. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3YzFT 03:22 Mexican authorities reported their sixth confirmed case of the novel coronavirus. The man, who contracted the virus abroad, is in "grave condition." 02:48 The US State Department warned its nationals against traveling to the central Asian countries of Azerbaijan and Turkmenistan, citing coronavirus concerns. Read more: Coronavirus and climate change: A tale of two crises 02:02 Iceland declared a state of emergency after two Icelandic nationals contracted the novel coronavirus in the country. The new cases brought the total number of cases to 43, reported Iceland Monitor news site. Italy has become one of the hardest hit countries in Europe 01:53 The American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC) said at least two attendees of its annual conference in Washington have tested positive for the novel coronavirus. 01:32 Two health screeners at Los Angeles International Airport have tested positive for coronavirus, reported Reuters news agency, citing an internal document. 01:18 South Korea reported 174 new confirmed cases of the novel coronavirus. Read more: Opinion: Will the new coronavirus spell the end of globalization? 00:37 Saudi Arabia limited landed crossings with Bahrain, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates, citing concerns about the coronavirus, reported the official SPA news agency. 00:24 Chinese authorities report 99 new cases, marking a drop from 143 a day before. The death toll in China reached 3,070 of which the overwhelming majority is located in the Hubei province, dubbed the epicenter of the outbreak. 00:05 Follow these live updates through the day. Read how things developed on Friday here:Coronavirus latest: Global cases reach 100,000 Read more: A coronavirus vaccine isn't coming very quickly Each evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Yzd7 dr, ed, aw, sri, ls/kl (AP, AFP, Reuters, dpa)