Just a month has passed since Chinese scientists decoded the genetic information of the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 and made it available to the global research community. Numerous research-based pharmaceutical companies, universities and other research institutions then immediately got to work. In the meantime, the number of labs working at full speed on the development of a vaccine to combat SARS-CoV-2 has grown to such an extent that it is difficult to maintain an overview. In addition to the large research institutes, such as the National Institute for Viral Control and Prevention in mainland China, researchers in Hong Kong, the USA, Germany, France, Australia, Canada and Israel are busy developing vaccines. Read more: Coronavirus vaccine — a race against time Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Ypkr Several projects are financially supported by CEPI, an international partnership to combat epidemics, which is financed by government and private funding. This partnership is currently funding vaccine developments by CureVac (here in Germany) and Inovio and Moderna (both in the US). In addition, there's a project at the University of Queensland (Australia), which has been testing a vaccine in animal models since the end of February. The CEPI projects are also supported by the US companies Dynavax and Glaxo Smith Kline (GSK), which are involved in the development of something called adjuvants. These work kind of like amplifiers in that they ensure that fewer antibodies per vaccine dose are sufficient to induce an immune response. In addition to the CEPI projects, Johnson&Johnson, Novavax (both in the US), Sanofi (France and multinational, respectively) and the Canadian VIDO-InterVAC have announced their own vaccine developments. Universities in Marburg (Germany), Hong Kong, Saskatchewan (Canada), Cambridge (UK) and institutes in Israel are among those involved in the international effort. It's one of the most widespread greetings in the business world. But will the traditional handshake go out of style? Health experts recommend avoiding it to reduce the risk of contracting the coronarvirus. Germany's interior minister took that advice seriously and refused to shake Chancellor Angela Merkel's hand. They both laughed and Merkel threw her hand up in the air before taking a seat. France's government has advised its citizens to cut back on the traditional "bise" — greeting by kissing others on both cheeks. But French President Emmanuel Macron nevertheless gave the double-kiss greeting to Italian Premier Giuseppe Conte during a summit in Naples this week, symbolically demonstrating that he didn't fear contact with the neighboring country affected by a coronavirus surge. It's a gesture that was first popularized by baseball and basketball players in the US. About 50% fewer bacteria are transferred by high-fiving than by shaking hands — meaning that it's still not completely risk-free. Commonly used in sports, the greeting was also popularized by former US President Obama, shown here with Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg. Beyond the coolness factor, the fist bump transmits significantly fewer germs than shaking hands — about 90% less according to one study. Hugging is another way to spread germs, but research has also shown that the warm embrace of a loved one may strengthen the immune system — and in some cases, it can boost diplomatic ties. This hug between South Korean President Moon Jae-in and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un in 2018 triggered various reactions on both sides of the border. They had previously opted for the more formal handshake. Australia's New South Wales Health Minister Brad Hazzard recommends this gesture: "It's time that Aussies actually gave each other a pat on the back for the time being — no handshaking," he said. While it transmits less bacteria than the previously mentioned forms of greetings, the pat on the back can be perceived as condescending by some people. Queen Elizabeth and Prince Philip wave here from the balcony of Buckingham Palace. The original gesture derived from a 18th-century tradition of knights saluting each other after removing the guard of their helmets to reveal their identity and show that they were coming in peace. Waving can, however, be seen as offensive in some countries. In China, where the COVID-19 outbreak began, one greeting recommendation is the traditional gong shou gesture, or the fist and palm salute, as demonstrated above by actress Miya Muqi at the Cannes screening of "Ash Is The Purest White" in 2018. A slight bow with palms pressed together in a prayer-like position: The Thai wai greeting is widespread in various southeast Asian countries — also known as the Indian namaste or the Burmese mingalar par. Similarly safe, Japan's traditional sign of salutation and reverence still belongs to everyday life. Learning to bow elegantly is an important part of becoming a respectable adult. Here, employees of a department store in Tokyo practice their greeting ahead of the start of a New Year sale. A recent viral video from China shows yet another alternative to the handshake: the "footshake," also dubbed the "Wuhan handshake." Rubbing dirty feet is still safer than touching hands... Probably the easiest way to greet someone without sharing germs and making a faux pas is to look the other person in the eyes, smile and say hello. Author: Elizabeth Grenier Success stories? Some research groups have announced that they'll accelerate vaccine development by setting very ambitious schedules, sometimes as short as a few weeks. German experts, however, view such announcements very critically. Infection epidemiologist Dr. Alexander Kekulé, who heads the Institute of Medical Microbiology at the University Hospital in Halle, assumes that an approved vaccine could be launched on the market in 2021 at the earliest. "There is no way we'll have a vaccine by autumn [2020]," the professor of medicine said during a debate on German public television. Kekulé also explained that developing a vaccine against coronaviruses is particularly difficult, because coronaviruses are genetically very mutable. This idea is supported by a study conducted by Chinese scientists, who have now discovered that there are already two SARS-CoV-2 strains, an s-CoV and an l-CoV strain. The first of these is the more common, the second more dangerous. The rapid mutability of the coronaviruses is also one of the reasons why there are no vaccinations against the common, seasonal cold viruses. At least yet. Most of these cold viruses are also coronaviruses, albeit far more harmless than SARS-CoV-1, SARS-CoV-2 or MERS. Safety before speed In contrast to the Ebola virus, for example, where phases II and III of the vaccine launch were both combined, an accelerated approval procedure for SARS-CoV-2 is out of the question. This is because the coronavirus is much less dangerous than Ebola, and the urgency is therefore not as great. The introduction of a vaccine always means that many healthy people will have to be vaccinated with it. And here — unlike with Ebola — the risk assessment clearly argues against a hasty procedure. Read more: New Ebola vaccine enters real-world DRC test phase "You never know exactly what you'll find when you do your testing,” says Dr. Rolf Hömke of the association of research-based pharmaceutical companies in Germany.  "So a company which takes a little longer with designing a vaccine may take a little shorter with the testing.” It is more important to rule out any possible damage that a vaccine itself could cause to a person than to vaccinate healthy individuals who almost never suffer from a severe form of COVID-19. In addition, there are already drugs available to treat the severe progressions of the disease after an individual contracts it. The RNA polymerase inhibitor Remdesivir, for example, which was originally developed against Ebola and has already been launched on the market, is very promising. According to the World Health Organization, there is no evidence to support claims that a saline solution will "kill” the virus and protect you. Certain brands of mouthwash may eliminate particular microbes from your saliva for a few minutes, but, according to the WHO, this does not protect you from the new coronavirus. This dubious claim has been spreading like wildfire across social media. Though it is possible that garlic may have some antimicrobial properties, there is no evidence to suggest from the current coronavirus outbreak that eating this bulb will protect people from the virus. There is no evidence to suggest pets, such as cats and dogs, can be infected or transmit the coronavirus. Regularly washing your hands with soap and water after touching your beloved moggy or pooch will help stop the spread of bacteria that they commonly carry, such as E. coli and salmonella. People receiving parcels from China are not at risk of contracting the new coronavirus, as the virus does not survive long on objects. Due to the poor survivability of the coronavirus on surfaces, there is a very low risk of spread from products or packaging that are shipped over a period of days or weeks. The new coronavirus needs its own vaccine. Pneumonia vaccines such as the pneumococcal and the Haemophilus influenzae type B (Hib) vaccine will not protect you against the coronavirus. Bleach/chlorine-based disinfectants, solvents, 75% ethanol, peracetic acid and chloroform can kill the 2019-nCoV on hard surfaces; however, they have little or no impact if you put them on your skin. To avoid a coronavirus infection, always cook raw foods thoroughly. It is also advisable to avoid direct contact with people who are sick. Frequently washing your hands with soap and water can help prevent an infection. You can also use an alcohol-based sanitizing gel instead. If you have to cough or sneeze, cover your mouth and nose with a tissue or your elbow. If you have contracted the disease without knowing it, coughing or sneezing in this manner might help to reduce the spread. Author: Jessie Wingard How will the different vaccinations work? Almost all vaccines under development are based on pre-existing vaccines. Doctors call this "platform development.” Some of them are already in use in veterinary medicine, such as a vaccine against MERS, which is already used for camels. Also, some vaccines have already been tested in animal models or are about to be tested. The hopes of some pharmaceutical companies are currently pinned on vaccines whose genetic information (mRNA or DNA) causes the formation of harmless viral proteins in the body. The body's immune defense system is then supposed to react to it. This approach, which Hömke says has never been approved before, would work, at least in theory, by taking a few genes from the coronavirus and transforming them into a vaccination. "When people get vaccinated from that, they will produce parts of the coronavirus within their body,” he told DW. "And this actually causes their immune system to start producing antibodies against it. So that's a totally different approach, something that has so far never been approved — it's too new — but may be a way to get the vaccine ready even quicker than with the other approaches.” "Another approach is a bit more conventional,” Hömke explains. "Take the coronavirus, and de-arm it. Inactivate what is in that virus that makes you ill, to end up with a virus which can infect, but not make you will, and may be suitable for vaccination.” This is a rather traditional method of vaccine production. However, it can take longer before sufficient vaccine doses are delivered. Finally, a third path involves taking a totally different virus and dressing it up in "corona clothes,” Hömke says, so that it appears as a coronavirus to the human body. This, too can be used to vaccine against SARS-CoV-2. In principle, it cannot be ruled out that a vaccine will only become available after the current pandemic has abated. However, it is also possible that further COVID-19 waves will continue to ripple around the globe. If summer begins in the northern hemisphere and the viruses have a harder time, epidemics could then break out in the colder southern hemisphere. Then, from late autumn onward, the virus could then spread more easily in the north again. The immune system needs many different types of fuel. Fruit and vegetables provide them. Your diet should be healthy and colorful: Oranges, red peppers, green leafy vegetables and red cabbage provide a potpourri of vitamins, and are especially rich in natural vitamin C. In order to ensure your immune system is top-top, make sure you have all the necessary immunizations. Adults often forget to refresh vaccinations they had when they were young. Check if you need booster shots for tetanus, diphtheria, whooping cough, polio, hepatitis, pneumococcus, meningitis, measles, mumps, rubella, the flu and others. Be sure to talk to your doctor! Scientific studies suggest that regular muscle training (jogging, nordic or pole walking, taking a stroll), three times a week for 20 minutes can boost your defenses. But be careful: overdoing it can also drain your immune system. Sufficient sleep doesn't just allow your body to recuperate. During the slow-wave sleep phase, neurotransmitters are released and the immune system springs into action. Studies show that good spirits and a zest for life promote a strong immune system. Laughing and playing don't just provide for a better quality of life, they also boost the body's defenses. Negative stress activates the release of adrenalin and cortisol. These hormones can paralyze the immune system. Sensible stress and time management allows the body to rest and replenish new energy. Selective relaxation exercises like meditation, autogenic training and yoga can significantly boost the immune system. Taking walks in the fresh air gives you a change of temperature and exercise - both stimulate the body's defense systems. Mucous membranes also benefit from improved circulation and the increased humidity makes it easier to fight off attacks. Studies have shown that burning up short chain sugars like fructose and glucose uses up many vitamins that are no longer available to the body. Alternating hot and cold showers help regulate body heat and improve blood flow. An invigorating massage with a massage sponge or brush stimulates the immune system even more.