The Persian New Year, or Nowruz, is on March 19 this year. It is a traditional time for traveling, visiting relatives and shopping. But, as DW users in Tehran report, the capital is like a ghost town. During the outbreak of the novel coronavirus, the government has asked people to remain at home. Iran is one of the countries where the virus has spread quickly. Not everyone has a house to go to. "The homeless children have to keep working, regardless of how heavily affected the country is by the epidemic," said Amir Hussein Bahari, who represents a nongovernmental organization that advocates for kids who live on the streets. Nearly half a million children aged 9 to 17 are looking for work in Iran, according to the Cooperatives, Labor and Social Welfare Ministry. The authorities do not know how many of them live in Tehran. Most come from poor families and work as cheap laborers for small operations, including as street vendors and garbage collectors. Read more: Angela Merkel urges 'solidarity and reason' in face of coronavirus There is generally a lot of work for homeless children starting in the middle of February. Shortly before the start of Nowruz, Iran's oldest and most important festival, Tehran's bazaars are full of people. They buy small gifts or flowers, have larger purchases delivered to their homes and hire extra help for New Year's cleanings — usually. But, this year, concern about the coronavirus is keeping people away. Read more: Germany rules out border closures to prevent coronavirus No clear tally As of March 11, official figures put the number of people infected with coronavirus at more than 8,000, with at least 291 deaths. The real numbers could be much higher. "Patients die and are buried without being tested for coronavirus," said Gholam Ali Jafarzadeh, a parliamentarian from the Gilan Province, which lies about 300 kilometers (180 miles) northwest of Tehran on the Caspian Sea, and is one of Iran's most popular holiday destinations. Mohammad Ali Ramezani, a newly elected lawmaker from Gilan, was among the 12 politicians and high-ranking officials in Iran to have died from coronavirus. Health Ministry officials estimate that transmissions will peak in the coming two weeks. Minoo Mohraz, a professor of infectious diseases at the Tehran University of Medical Sciences, estimates that about 40% of Iran's 80 million inhabitants will be infected with the virus. Known officially as Sars-CoV-2, it appears to infect men, women and children equally. However, the symptoms vary. Children rarely fall seriously ill, but they can still spread coronavirus, even if they don't exhibit symptoms, Mohraz said. Read more: How has Taiwan kept its coronavirus infection rate so low? "Up to now, unfortunately, we have lacked protective measures for socially disadvantaged groups such as homeless children," the activist Bahari said. "For example, there are no places where these children can go to receive gloves or disinfectants. There are also no centers or hospitals where these children and their families can be treated in case of emergency. Many of them have no health insurance." Read more: Who is particularly at risk for coronavirus — and why? Many residents of Tehran appear to pay no notice to homeless children. In the past 35 years, the government has undertaken more than 20 projects to protect and support homeless children, all of which have failed. Effective work is only done by NGOs, which are financed by donations. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3ZDNg Volunteers overwhelmed Over the past several weeks, Bahari and his colleagues have worked in disadvantaged neighborhoods around Tehran to distribute disinfectants and inform homeless children about the risk of infection. "We have little influence over those who employ these children," Bahari said. "Apart from that, the number of children is so high that we have to say realistically we can't care for all of them. A lot of children are under heavy mental strain, particularly because they have no access to reliable information." Iranian authorities have for some time published information that is contradictory or downplays the risks of the virus. The Information and Communications Technology Ministry has published a map online that informs citizens about the danger of infection in neighborhoods around Tehran. The greatest danger is in the central and southern portions of Tehran. It is in those neighborhoods where the population density is high and incomes are low. It is precisely those areas where Tehran's homeless children live, often with their families. A day after Berlin announced that performances in major state-owned venues were to be cancelled until April 19, city authorities have banned all events with more than 1,000 participants as well. "The coronavirus continues to spread. In such a phase, public life must be restricted," Berlin's local Health Minister Dilek Kalayci said. Many major concerts have been cancelled, including Madonna's last two dates of her "Madame X" tour in Paris. France has banned on Sunday public gatherings of more than 1,000 people. The Paris Opera has also cancelled its performances. All Irish St. Patrick's Day parades, including Dublin's main celebration that draws around 500,000 revelers from all over the world each year, are cancelled because of fears over the spread of COVID-19, state broadcaster RTE reported on Monday. Ireland's famous March 17 parades were also previously cancelled in 2001 during an outbreak of foot and mouth disease. With quarantine measures in place in northern Italy, soccer matches occurring without spectators, and Italian Prime Minister Guiseppe Conte's order to close museums, theaters and cinemas, it should come as no surprise that the Vatican has closed the doors to its museums, including the Sistine Chapel (above), until probably April 3. In the Vatican itself, five people are currently in quarantine. This annual music, film and tech festival held in Austin, Texas, usually attracts more than 400,000 visitors. But less than a week before its March 12, 2020 start date, organizers decided to cancel in a bid to prevent the spreading of the coronavirus. There's a silver lining though: it may only be postponed and not cancelled altogether. The International Film Academy has announced that it would be postponing its awards ceremony, also known as Bollywood's Oscars, due to fears over the coronavirus outbreak. According to official numbers, India has been until now relatively unscathed by the epidemic. Actor Shah Rukh Khan (photo) was one the stars expected at the event planned for March 27; a new date has not been decided yet. James Bond perhaps has a little more time on his hands than the title of the upcoming film in the franchise suggests: "No Time to Die" producers have decided to push back the release of the movie to November. Daniel Craig's last outing as 007 was initially planned for April. It's the first Hollywood blockbuster to shift its release schedule in reaction to the coronavirus outbreak. The start of the world's most prestigious architecture biennale has also been delayed. Instead of opening in May, it will run from August 29 to November 29 — three months later than planned. The theme of the event takes on a new meaning amid current developments: "How do we live together?" Due to take place March 10-12, the book fair was cancelled "with reluctance," said organizers, after several major publishers such as HarperCollins and Penguin Random House pulled out of the event to avoid exposing their staff to the virus. The London Book Fair usually draws more than 25,000 authors and book industry insiders. Europe's biggest trade fair for the music industry also announced that it was postponing the event, which was set to celebrate its 40th anniversary on April 2-4. While it was deemed to be "the only responsible and right decision to take," the cancellation is bound to affect many small businesses in the music industry, said Christian Höppner, secretary general of the German Music Council. Change of plans for book fans: The Leipzig Book Fair, scheduled to be held March 12-15, was cancelled due to the spread of the new coronavirus, a spokesperson for the fair announced on March 3. The second-largest book fair in Germany expected to draw 2,500 exhibitors from 51 countries. Preparations for the world's largest travel fair were already in full swing when the organizers cancelled it at the last minute. Due to the ongoing virus threat, participants to the Berlin fair had to prove they had not been to one of the defined risk areas. With 170,000 visitors from all over the world, this proved to be an impossible task and the fair couldn't open on March 4 as planned. Each April, thousands of design professionals, artists and companies visit Milan to check out the latest in furniture and interior design. This year, however, organizers have announced it will be moved to June due to the COVID-19 outbreak. Milan is the capital of the Lombardy region, which has seen the lion's share of Italian coronivirus cases. Some airlines have even suspended their flights. There is perhaps no venue more symbolic of Italy's rich operatic tradition than the La Scala opera house in Milan. Now, its seats will remain empty until March 8. Italy's Prime Minister called for the suspension of cultural events and the venue is sticking to the rules. At the time of writing, Italy has more cases of the new coronavirus than any country outside of Asia. The reigning K-Pop boy band BTS does big business with each concert, but in the wake of the virus in South Korea, the group cancelled four April dates at the Seoul Olympic Stadium, which seats 69,950 people. "It's impossible to predict the scale of the outbreak," said the group's management. On Tuesday, cases in South Korea reached 5,100 with the majority of infections in the city of Daegu. No, we aren't describing the task of containing the new coronavirus, but rather the new movie starring Tom Cruise which was supposed to have a three-week shoot in Venice. The film has been postponed, movie studio Paramount Pictures said Monday. Venice's cultural events have been hard hit by the outbreak. The final two days of lagoon city's annual Carnival festival were also cancelled. On February 28, the Swiss government imposed a ban on events of more than 1,000 people until March 15, making it the first European country to do so as a preemptive measure to fight against the spread of the illness. As a result, many concerts and events were called off, including concerts by Carlos Santana (pictured) and Alice Cooper at the 15,000-person Hellenstadion in Zürich. The Hamburg Ballet John Neumeier cancelled guest performances in Macau and Singapore due to the coronavirus outbreak. On the program were "The Lady of the Camellias," which tells the story of a famous Parisian courtesan and "Nijinsky." Whether the tour will take place at another point in time is still in the air. In spring 2021 the Hamburg Ballet plans to tour in Japan. Author: Sarah Hucal DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.