All updates in Coordinated Universal Time (UTC/GMT). Read more: What you need to know about the coronavirus 08:53 Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi says he won't be taking part in this year's Holi celebrations over coronavirus concerns. The annual festival of colors is set to begin on Monday. "Experts across the world have advised to reduce mass gatherings to avoid the spread of Covid-19 Novel Coronavirus," Modi wrote on Twitter. "Hence, this year I have decided not to participate in any Holi Milan programme." Home Minister Amit Shah said he also planned to avoid the celebrations, and appealed on Twitter for "everyone to avoid public gatherings and take a good care of yourself & your family." 08:28 India's health minister says the total number of COVID-19 cases in the country has jumped to 28, up from five. That figure includes 16 Italian tourists who tested positive for the virus. They are being treated in isolation wards. An Indian man who was driving the tourists around was also infected and placed in quarantine. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said authorities had also implemented additional measures: "We will now screen all international passengers. We will not limit our screenings to 12 countries as we did earlier," he told a news conference. 08:17 France will begin regulating the price of antibacterial gels after a reported surge in prices since the coronavirus outbreak began, Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire told French BFM Business radio. A pharmacists' union had called for the government to intervene, saying the cost hike was unacceptable. There are 204 cases of the coronavirus in France, and four deaths. 08:01 Kazakhstan's government says it has closed the country's Caspian Sea ports of Aktau and Kuryk to ships carrying passengers from Iran and Azerbaijan to prevent the coronavirus from spreading, according to the Reuters news agency. Read more:  How long is the coronavirus incubation period? 07:55 So far, two countries in sub-Saharan Africa have officially been affected by the COVID-19 disease: Nigeria and Senegal. But the economic consequences of the outbreak are already being felt on the continent. Read more here. 07:41 Poland has reported its first case of coronavirus. The country's health minister, Lukasz Szumowski, said the infected man had recently been in Germany and was in a stable condition in the western Polish city of Zielona Gora. The minister added that all the people the patient came into contact with are in quarantine. Some 68 people are being observed in hospital, while around 500 are in quarantine at home. 07:37 Major supermarkets in Australia are enforcing strict limits on toilet paper purchases after coronavirus fears sparked a rush of panic buying. The country's biggest grocer, Woolworths, said it was allowing each customer to buy no more than four toilet paper packs each "to ensure more customers have access to the products." It said hand sanitizers would also be restricted to two bottles per person. The hashtag #toiletpaper was trending on social media as Australians reacted to the buying frenzy and empty supermarket shelves. 07:23 The government of majority-Muslim Tajikistan has asked its citizens to avoid going to mosques for Friday prayers as a precaution against the coronavirus spread, Reuters news agency reports. The Central Asian country of 9 million people has not reported any infections so far. Authorities there have shut the border to citizens of neighboring China and Afghanistan, as well as South Korea, Iran and Italy. Read more: Opinion: Are we facing a coronavirus epidemic or pandemic? 07:14 Japan's top government spokesman says the country will go ahead with plans to host the Summer Olympics in July. Speculation has been mounting about the possibility the event could be postponed to later in the year over coronavirus concerns. "We would steadily proceed with our preparations while closely coordinating with the IOC (the International Olympic Committee) and the organizing committee," Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told a news conference. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Ynrz 06:58 The outbreak is taking a heavy toll on tourism around the world. You can read more about the impact it's having here. 06:33 Officials in South Korea say the number of people infected with the coronavirus there has risen to 5,328. Most cases are in and around Daegu. Vice Health Minister Kim Gang-lip said 2,300 people were waiting to be admitted to hospitals and temporary medical facilities in the city. The government has announced a stimulus package of 11.7 trillion won ($9.8 billion) to ease the impact of the virus' spread. 06:13 In the US, the number of diagnoses has risen to 27, with nine deaths. All the cases are confined to Washington state. 06:10 The global death toll officially stands at 3,190. The virus has been confirmed in more than 80 countries. South Korea, the worst-hit country outside China, reported 516 new infections on Wednesday. In India, 16 Italians tested positive, according to state media. 06:00 Welcome to our rolling updates on another busy day regarding the global coronavirus outbreak. Here's an overview of some of the key developments so far on Wednesday: Read more: Catch up on Tuesday's developments here Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3YnmH nm/rt (AFP, Reuters, AP, dpa) DW sends out a daily selection of hard news and quality feature journalism. Sign up here.