Amnesty International suspended human rights work in India after an Indian government investigative arm froze the organization's bank accounts, according to a statement released Tuesday. "This is an egregious and shameful act by the Indian government, which forces us to cease the crucial human rights work of Amnesty International India for now," Julie Verhaar, the acting secretary-general of Amnesty, said in a statement, adding that the organization was working "resolutely" to determine how it can continue human rights work in India. Read more: Indian police raid Amnesty International offices The government of India froze Amnesty International India's bank accounts on September 10, which Amnesty said forced it to let go of staff and "pause its ongoing campaign and research work." Amnesty said the Indian government was unduly portraying the group's fundraising as "money laundering" under a law regulating foreign donations. David Griffiths, Director of the secretary-general's office at Amnesty International, told DW that the Indian government has brought no charges against Amnesty India to substantiate allegations of funding violations. "Staff have been interrogated, offices have been raided, and the bank accounts have been frozen, which, incidentally, we heard about from the bank, not the authorities," he said. "They have given us no way to answer the case they are making against us ... This is reprisal, pure and simple, for the human rights work that we are doing." According to Amnesty, around 100,000 Indians have supported the group financially over the past 8 years. Amnesty has accused the Indian government of carrying out a "witch hunt of human rights organizations" in response to rights watchdogs challenging the "government's grave excesses." India's ruling Hindu-nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Prime Minister Narendra Modi have been accused of pushing a Hindu-first agenda that marginalizes the country's Muslim minority and violates human rights principles. One of the relief camps for the victims of the riots has been set up inside an Eidgah, a large open-air mosque designated for Eid al-Fitr prayers. Set up by the Delhi government, it now shelters about 1,000 people affected by the violence. It's located in the Mustafabad area of the Indian capital. It is hard to imagine whether the camps let these people forget what happened to them. They are living in trauma, pain and are clueless about how they will rebuild their lives. The trigger for the riots was a citizenship law introduced last year that critics say marginalizes India's Muslim minority. Police data show at least 53 people, many of them Muslims, were killed and over 200 were injured. This camp is segregated into two sections, with separate areas for men and women. The communal riots shocked Delhi residents, with many saying they never expected such violence to take place in their home city. Children who were exposed to the violence have been left traumatized. Many schools were burnt down during the riots. At the camp, some children are trying to keep up with their studies. Children in the camp also wear tags on their wrists for identification. Authorities and non-governmental organizations have been offering various legal and healthcare services for those in the camp. While doctors and nurses provide health checkups and medicines, legal aid is being offered to help victims lodge cases of looting, arson and violence. Despite their suffering and the severe physical and mental pain, there is a longing to once again live as they used to in their houses and among their friends and well-wishers. There is hope that one day, all will be well again. Author: Amir Ansari, Charu Kartikeya (New Delhi) In August, Amnesty said police violated human rights during deadly religious riots in New Delhi earlier this year, including beating protesters, torturing detainees and joining Hindu mobs. Amnesty has also accused the Indian military of violating human rights during New Delhi's crackdown on the Muslim-majority Jammu and Kashmir. Read more: Modi’s government strengthens hold on India-administered Kashmir New Dehli has targeted Amnesty India's finances before. In 2018, Indian authorities raided its office and froze its bank accounts on similar charges. In 2016, the watchdog faced sedition charges after Amnesty held an event to discuss human rights violations in Kashmir. "Treating human rights organisations like criminal enterprises and dissenting individuals as criminals without any credible evidence is a deliberate attempt ... to stoke a climate of fear and dismantle the critical voices in India," said Avinash Kumar, Amnesty India's executive director. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3iEHA wmr/dr (AP, AFP, Reuters) 