Iran's security forces were the perpetrators of serious human rights violations against demonstrators in the wake of anti-government protests in November 2019, according to a report by Amnesty International on Wednesday. The UK-based non-governmental organization accused security forces of using torture to elicit confessions, adding that hundreds of civilians have subsequently been imprisoned since last year's protests against increased petrol prices that prompted a severe crackdown from the Iranian regime. At the time, the nationwide demonstrations were quelled by security forces with widespread arrests as well as a near-total internet blackout. Amnesty said it had collated dozens of accounts and that children as young as 10 were among those arrested. The testimonies reveal "a catalog of shocking human rights violations, including arbitrary detention, enforced disappearance, torture and other ill-treatment," Amnesty said. Read more: Iranian hackers pose as DW journalists Those arrested were tortured into "confessions" of involvement in the unrest, membership of opposition groups or contact with foreign powers, it added. The human rights group said it had registered the names of more than 500 people "subjected to unfair criminal proceedings in connection with the protests." "Hundreds have since been sentenced to prison terms and flogging and several to the death penalty following grossly unfair trials which were presided over by biased judges behind closed doors," Amnesty said. Jail terms ranged from one month to 10 years, the report stated. Indian civil society is incensed over a new citizenship law that allegedly discriminates against Muslims. Protests have erupted across the country, with citizens demanding the ruling Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) roll back the legislation. Indian women are spearheading the protest rallies in several parts of the country. Female university students have taken to the streets in India, raising slogans against government's "unconstitutional" measures, which they say threaten the country's secular ideology. Although the mass demonstrations are against the citizenship law, they also confront fascistic social tendencies, misogyny, religious extremism and police brutality. From removing their hijabs to challenging the hardline Shiite regime, Iranian women have shown exemplary courage in the past few years. Despite a crackdown on these "westernized" Iranian women, the demonstrations continue in different forms in major Iranian cities. Iranian women have experienced patriarchal suppression since the 1979 Islamic revolution. Their demands for equal rights, freedom of speech and assembly, have always been snubbed by the regime. But that has not discouraged women from rallying against the authorities. Also, Iranian women actively participate in all political and civil demonstrations. Misogyny is rampant in Pakistan, with many people looking down upon women who demand equal rights. Dubbed "Western agents" and "NGO mafia," feminists are generally rejected by a large section of society. Despite these odds, Pakistani women are increasingly making their voice heard, organizing rallies and demonstrations that have galvanized the liberal sections in the past few years. Although women's rights movements in Pakistan have largely been exclusive, focusing mainly on issues like gender-based violence, child marriage and "honor killings," women can now be seen participating actively in pro-democracy protests. Last year, female university students led a nationwide movement for the restoration of student unions that forced lawmakers to debate the issue in parliament. Women's rights are not a major concern for many in Afghanistan – a country ravaged by wars in the past few decades. The international community is mainly concerned about the peace talks with Taliban insurgents and a stable government. Mostly ignored by their own government and the West, Afghan women are still making their presence felt. As the US and the Taliban near a deal on ending America's longest war, many women and girls in Afghanistan are worried about losing what few rights and freedoms they've gained over nearly two decades. In this photo, Afghan women right activists demand justice for Farkhunda Malikzada, who was brutally beaten and killed by a mob in 2015 for allegedly setting a copy of the Koran on fire. Author: Shamil Shams Techniques deployed to torture those detained included water boarding, beating, electric shocks, pepper spraying genitals, sexual violence, mock executions and pulling out finger and toe nails, Amnesty said. In May this year, Iran's interior minister suggested that up to 225 people died during the protests, when petrol pumps were set on fire, police stations attacked and stores looted. Read more: Iran retrieves cockpit recordings from downed Ukraine Airlines jet A group of independent UN rights experts said in December 2019 that hundreds of people could have been killed, based on unconfirmed reports while Amnesty also suggested more than 300 citizens perished in the wake of the unrest. Iran blamed the violence that broke out in the midst of the protests on "thugs" supported by the US, Israel and Saudi Arabia. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3haBX jsi/aw (AFP, dpa, KNA) 