Government statistics show that the number of people in South Korea who deliberately harmed themselves in the first half of 2020 soared nearly 36% on the same period last year. A record 595,724 people have been treated for depression, up 5.8% on the first six months of 2019, while suicide rates have also risen. Cases of suicide among women in their late teens and 20s are of particular concern, with the 1,924 deaths in this age group in the first half of the year – an increase of more than 7% on last year's figure. And, the experts point out, the statistics do not record the number of attempted suicides. "The biggest worry that I hear about now, the biggest insecurity is about people's futures at this difficult time," said Dr Park Chanmin, founder of the Seoul Central Mental Health Clinic. Read more: South Korea struggling to control resurgence of coronavirus "Since the start of the pandemic, people have become more and more worried about their jobs, they are seeing their incomes falling, and that is having an impact on their day-to-day lives," he told DW. "This is a trend that appears to be emerging." Experts point out that suicide among young women was up an alarming 17.9% in April, the month when the pandemic was raging through South Korean society. Schools and universities were shut down, companies were attempting to arrange for employees to work from home, firms were going under, and opportunities to go out with friends or family for meals or drinks simply vanished due to the virus. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3hCSR Dr Park agrees, adding, "Social distancing in Korea is slightly different to other countries, but there is no doubt that it has led to higher levels of stress in people because the places they can go out and meet other people have been severely restricted." According to statistics from the Ministry of Health and Welfare, women experience suicidal thoughts 1.5 times more frequently than men, with around 60% of the people admitted to emergency rooms after attempting suicide last year were women. Read more: Coronavirus triggers mental health crisis in India In the first six months after coronavirus struck, Seoul women in their 20s attempted suicide nearly five times more frequently than any other demographic, a city official told The Korea Herald. "Something very alarming is happening here," the official said. "As a society, we must pay more attention to this." It's a similar situation with cases of self-harming, with opposition politician Lee Eun-ju, of the Justice Party, calling on the government to do more. Social distancing and self-isolation protocols imposed due to the pandemic have caused mental distress, she said, and the situation should be considered a "social disaster" rather than merely a question of an individual being ill. "The government should introduce measures and be prepared to provide treatment,” she told DW. "In particular, for the young and low-income families, it is necessary to provide a system that is easy for them to access, including counseling and treatment support, as well as lowering the threshold for medical consultations." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3cTwn Lee has proposed the creation of a team that will be able to draw up tailored support programs for young people, in addition to the Central Disaster Psychological Recovery Support Group that was set up by the government on July 30. Read more: Coronavirus bounces back to threaten South Korea's health system David Tizzard, a professor of education at Seoul Women's University, says the COVID-19 pandemic has added another layer of stress to a society that is already something of a pressure cooker, particularly for young women. "I don't think that all of this can be attributed to coronavirus," he told DW. "South Korea is a very homogenous nation, and there is a very clear and very high standard for beauty among young women. And when they do not measure up to that standard, they get depressed." According to the latest data from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, South Korea has the highest per capita suicide rate of the 35 member countries and suicide has been the top cause of death for young people since 2007. "So Korean women are trying to live up to this perfect image, which is not something that women in more multicultural countries necessarily have to do, and I also believe that it has been made worse by the rise of social media which has, in turn, contributed to driving up rates of depression," Tizzard said. Spending time in green spaces can reduce stress and help us feel happier and healthier. If exercising outdoors is still an option where you live, as it is in Germany, make the most of it by going for a daily walk in a nearby park or nature reserve. Just avoid busy areas, keep a safe distance from others and wash your hands as soon as you get home. If walking in the woods isn't possible, there are still ways to enjoy nature at home. Research suggests that looking at greenery out a window, or even listening to sounds from nature, can boost our well-being. Scientists from Brighton and Sussex Medical School in the UK found birdsong, wind in the trees, or a burbling brook — sounds readily available to stream online — help us relax as well. Many national parks are closed to the public, and travel is off the cards, but thanks to technology it's possible to observe wildlife without leaving the house. Many nature reserves and animal sanctuaries have webcams you can livestream online, making it possible to "visit" a range of spots, from a gorilla corridor in the DRC, to an elephant park in South Africa and a bald eagle nest in the US. Zoos and aquariums are also offering livestreams of their enclosures, like this Jellyfish Cam at the Monterey Bay Aquarium on the US west coast. Studies show that watching fish tanks, even for a short period, can have a soothing effect, helping to reduce stress and anxiety. Start paying attention to the wildlife around you. Perhaps there's a bumble bee buzzing among the flowers on your balcony, or a robin that frequents the fence outside. An initiative in the UK is encouraging people to start their day by sharing bird photos snapped from their homes under the hashtag #BreakfastBirdwatch on social media. A similar campaign, #BirdingatHome, has taken off in Australia. Apart from a DIY project that will keep housebound kids busy for a while, a bird feeder might also attract feathered friends to your property. All you need are some bird seeds, cooking fat and a pine cone or coconut shell. And don't stress if you don't have a garden — you can also hang the feeder up with a piece of string outside a window or from a balcony. Another way you can support local biodiversity is by providing shelter for insects. Again, you don't necessarily need a garden. You can make the structure as big or small as you like, depending on whether it's for a yard, patio or tiny balcony. Old wooden pallets, bricks, dry leaves, straw and other natural materials will help you get started. Gardening can ward off anxiety and boost our mood, so why not use your time in lockdown to plant some veggies or bright flowers? Lavender, thyme, sage and other insect-friendly plants could also attract pollinators like butterflies and bees. Even if you don't have a backyard, you can still grow plants indoors. Check out options for home delivery from garden centers. Author: Natalie Muller Tizzard also believes that the new figures that are being reported may be a result of a greater awareness of the problem in society and a willingness for people to admit that they have a problem and need help. That has even spilled over into the realm of entertainment, with a new romantic television drama titled "It's Okay to Not be Okay" set in a psychiatric hospital where the two primary characters attempt to heal each other's emotional and psychological wounds. Read more: Suicide prevention amid coronavirus pandemic: 'We're still there for each other' Yet those same stars of the screen and Korea's booming music sectors are just as susceptible to depression and desperation. On September 9, pop star Shin Min-ah, formerly with the all-girl group ILUV, was stopped by police just before she tried to jump off the Seongsan Bridge in Seoul. It was the second time police had intervened to avert a suicide attempt by the 22-year-old. If you are suffering from serious emotional strain or suicidal thoughts, do not hesitate to seek professional help. You can find information on where to find such help, no matter where you live in the world, at this website: https://www.befrienders.org/  