George Washington University has launched an investigation after a professor admitted she had lied for years about being Black and is actually white. In her latest blog, Jessica Krug, an associate professor of history, said that she had lived most of her adult life eschewing her "lived experience as a white Jewish child in suburban Kansas City under various assumed identities within a Blackness that I had no right to claim: first North African Blackness, then US rooted Blackness, then Caribbean rooted Bronx Blackness." Read more: Disgraced ex-NAACP leader Rachel Dolezal adopts new west African name One of her former students told CNN that Krug had voiced pride in her Bronx roots, but told another student that she was from Puerto Rico. In her blog post, Krug said that her actions were the "very epitome of violence, of thievery and appropriation, of the myriad ways in which non-Black people continue to use and abuse Black identities and cultures." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3e4EO Read more: Juneteenth: Celebrating the end of slavery in the US In a statement released on Friday, University Provost Brian Blake and Dean Paul Wahlbeck wrote, "Dr. Krug will not be teaching her classes this semester. We are working on developing a number of options for students in those classes, which will be communicated to affected students as soon as possible." "We want to acknowledge the pain this situation has caused for many in our community," the statement read. She blamed "unaddressed mental health demons" dating back to childhood, and said that she frequently thought of confessing the deception, "but my cowardice was always more powerful than my ethics." Read more: Opinion: Let's topple statues to decolonize Krug's biography on the university's website lists imperialism, colonialism and African-American history among her areas of expertise. Her writings also center heavily on issues of African culture and diaspora. The professor's public persona came across in a video testimony to a New York City Council hearing on gentrification in June, in which she referred to herself as Jess La Bombalera. At the meeting, Krug talked about her "Black and brown siblings" in the anti-gentrification movement and criticized "all these white New Yorkers" who "did not yield their time to Black and brown indigenous New Yorkers." These schoolboys are taking part in a "big movement," as Noel puts it, for the first time. Noel adds: "The last time we were just a bit too young. But now that we're old enough to understand what's happening, we're out here just doing what we can for the community." Sammy says: "We want to make America a better place for black people." "Black lives matter," the student chants, adding "they really don't matter here." Celeste demands more stringent checks on police officers. Her complaint does not just refer to the killing of George Floyd, however: "Protesters have been treated terribly, it's police brutality." "I want justice for George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and everyone killed by police every day. There is no accountability, nothing happens," the schoolgirl says. But will she and her fellow protesters be able to bring about change? "We have to! We have no other choice." "We promote human rights across the globe, but I think that we're not capable of promoting human rights across the globe as a country when we have so many human rights violations of our own in our own country," says Addie, who works for a think tank. "It's not enough to be neutral," legal trainee Mary adds: "Silence is betrayal." "This form of oppression, the killing of black people, has been happening in our society for over 400 years. Enough is enough. We are tired," the student says. "But we were tired when Trayvon Martin happened, when Eric Garner happened. I'm 21, I'm finally at the age where I can get involved. I've got to make it count." "History is repeating itself. So it's time for a change," the student says. "I feel like we deserve our say now. We've waited long enough. I don't feel like the military should be involved. If anything, the government should be doing something to make us feel more safe, not us having to go and do it ourselves." "I'm tired of the systematic racism, the oppression. I'm tired of seeing my people die. I'm just sick of it," says the student tearfully. Bryan, who also has a part-time job at the House of Representatives, adds: "The first thing is to get Trump out of office. There's no reason why a president should be promoting the violence and the destruction and the killings of his own citizens." Author: Carla Bleiker (Washington, D.C.) Hari Ziyard, editor for the online publication RaceBatr, which had published some of Krug's work, responded to the revelations on Twitter. Jess Krug "is someone I called a friend up until this morning when she gave me a call admitting to everything written here. She didn't do it out of benevolence. She did it because she had been found out," he wrote. "In the world of academia, I can only imagine how many more Jessica Krugs and Rachel Dolezals there are that are pretending to be Black women to advance their professional careers," another user tweeted. Krug's scenario was reminiscent of the case of controversial US activist Rachel Dolezal, who made headlines in 2015 after saying she identified as Black, even though both of her parents are white. "I'm more Black than I am white," Dolezal said at the time. lc/dj (AP, AFP) 