The UK government has confirmed rumors that had been circulating Westminster in recent days that it intends to alter the Brexit deal it negotiated with the European Union. The move has been widely condemned as a breach of international law, one that undermines trust in Prime Minister Boris Johnson's government and added another twist to a saga that has been ongoing since British voters chose to leave the EU in June 2016. The British government has claimed that the treaty was rushed through in January and it now recognizes ambiguities regarding the border between Northern Ireland and Ireland, which has been a major sticking point for both the UK and the EU. The newly proposed British bill seeks to give ministers power to unilaterally disregard some of the arrangements in the Northern Ireland protocol. Additionally, the British government wants to tear up the state aid rules post-Brexit in Northern Ireland, removing the "direct effect" of EU law. This regulation is in place to give any member of the public or business a right to sue in the event of a dispute under European law. The bill also pulls apart Article 10 of the protocol concerning state aid and says that it will "not be interpreted in accordance with case law of the European court" or "in accordance with any legislative act of the EU." It's essentially a choice of a harder or softer Brexit. Harder prioritizes border control over trade. UK firms would pay tariffs to do business in the EU, and vice versa. The softest Brexit would see access to the single market, or at least a customs union, maintained. That would require concessions — including the payment of a hefty "divorce bill" — to which the UK has provisionally agreed. Businesses have expressed concern about a "cliff edge" scenario, where Britain leaves the EU with no deal. Even if an agreement is reached at the EU bloc level, the worry is that it could be rejected at the last minute. Each of the 27 remaining countries must ratify the arrangements, and any might reject them. That could mean chaos for businesses and individuals. If there is no agreement at all, a fully sovereign UK would be free to strike new trade deals and need not make concessions on the rights of EU citizens living in the UK or pay the financial settlement of outstanding liabilities. However, trade would be crippled. UK citizens in other parts of the EU would be at the mercy of host governments. There would also be a hard EU-UK border in Ireland. The EU and the UK could reach a deal on Britain's exiting the bloc without an agreement on future relations. This scenario would still be a very hard Brexit, but would at least demonstrate a degree of mutual understanding. Trade agreements would be conducted, on an interim basis, on World Trade Organization rules. Most trade tariffs on exported goods are lifted, except for "sensitive" food items like eggs and poultry. However, exporters would have to show their products are genuinely "made in Britain" so the UK does not become a "back door" for global goods to enter the EU. Services could be hit more. The City of London would lose access to the passporting system its lucrative financial business relies on. Under the Swiss model, the UK would have single market access for goods and services while retaining most aspects of national sovereignty. Switzerland, unlike other members of the European Free Trade Area (EFTA), did not join the European Economic Area (EEA) and was not automatically obliged to adopt freedom of movement. Under a bilateral deal, it agreed to do so but is still dragging its feet. As part of the European Economic Area, Norway has accepted freedom of movement – something that no Brexit-supporting UK government would be likely to do. Norway still has to obey many EU rules and is obliged to make a financial contribution to the bloc while having no voting rights. Some see this as the worst of both worlds. Turkey is the only major country to have a customs union with the EU, as part of a bilateral agreement. Under such an arrangement, the UK would not be allowed to negotiate trade deals outside the EU, instead having the bloc negotiate on its behalf. Many Brexiteers would be unwilling to accept this. It would, however, help minimize disruption at ports and, crucially, at the Irish border. Author: Richard Connor The EU is not happy with the new proposals as it changes an agreement signed and, supposedly, sealed towards the end of last year. European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and Ireland's taoiseach, Micheal Martin, are just two of the European leaders who have condemned the proposals they believe breach commitments made to protect the peace process and avoid a hard border on the island of Ireland. Many observers have said the new bill breaks international law and undermines trust within the government. Even two former Conservative prime ministers have expressed their dismay at the proposal. John Major, a frequent critic of the government on Brexit despite his allegiances to the Conservative Party, and Theresa May have both said the bill would undermine trust at an already sensitive time. By "taking the powers to disapply the EU law concept of direct effect … in a certain very tightly defined circumstance," the government's Northern Ireland secretary, Brandon Lewis, admitted the new bill breaks international law. The bill's text deals with the issue of the so-called Northern Ireland Protocol – an element of the withdrawal agreement designed to prevent a hard border returning to the island of Ireland after Brexit. The minor details of the protocol, which will deal with issues of state aid and whether there needs to be customs checks on goods, is still being negotiated by a joint UK and EU committee. The EU has called for urgent talks with the UK government and those talks will determine whether it is merely a clarification London is seeking or if certain parts of the Brexit agreement need to be torn up. If it is the latter, then hopes of a trade deal between the two will lie in tatters and that will leave the UK almost certainly crashing out of the bloc in a "no-deal" scenario. And the clock is ticking since any trade deal between Brussels and London would need to approved by the end of the year. Unless London and Brussels reach an agreement, the "no-deal" scenario sees the UK and EU on World Trade Organization terms, meaning means tariffs, border checks and other barriers to trade — a step both sides had hoped to avoid.  