Firefighters were battling wildfires across the west coast of the United States late Saturday as the death toll in California, Oregon and Washington rose to at least 30. Authorities said they were expecting the death count to rise sharply as they continued to search for dozens of missing people. Oregon Governor Kate Brown confirmed that state emergency officials were anticipating a "mass fatality event." Read more: Wildfires: Can we adapt to live with them? In California, the fires have burned a record-shattering 13,000 square kilometers (about 5,000 square miles) since January — a burn area 26 times larger than the same time last year. Fires have burned more than 4,000 square kilometers in Oregon and more than 2,400 square kilometers in Washington. Dangerous smog descended on Seattle The three states had some of the worst air quality in the world, with smog descending on major cities like Portland and Seattle. At least 40,000 people have fled their homes in Oregon alone, thousands more in California. US President Donald Trump announced he will visit McClellan Park, near California's capital Sacramento, on Monday to be briefed on the fire. Firefighters hoped that improved weather conditions over the weekend would allow them to get the fires under control. Several major fires, such as the Holiday Farm fire in southern Oregon, are 0% contained. Facebook started to remove false claims that the deadly wildfires in Oregon were started by far-left and far-right groups, a spokesman for the social media giant confirmed. State officials have been keen to debunk posts that claim that the fires were deliberately set by extremist groups. For many San Francisco residents, the skies offered an ominous overtone to the day. The city's renowned Golden Gate Bridge was barely visible from either end. But the local fire department tried to offer a hopeful message when it addressed the city's residents. "We know the smoke, darkness and orange glow is scary," the fire department said in a tweet. "It's going to get better." Orange skies over San Francisco were a symptom of deadly wildfires burning across northern California. Authorities in Butte County said three people had died as thousands fled their homes. California, Oregon and Washington are struggling to contain devastating wildfires, with Oregon Governor Kate Brown warning it "could be the greatest loss of human lives and property" in the state's history. Hours before the San Francisco Giants were to face off the Seattle Mariners, the orange skies made an empty stadium look even bleaker as the smoke blocked out the sun. "The lights were on when I first got here," said athletics manager Bob Melvin. "It has been dark out there all day. I don't have any sunglasses to go out there with today." Experts have warned that the blazes are laying waste to large swaths of land. Daniel Swain, a climate scientist at the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA), estimated the fires had burned through more than 1,000 square kilometers (386 square miles) in the last 24 hours alone. "The unbelievable rates of spread now being observed on these fires is historically unprecedented," he said. Facebook has previously used warning labels to indicate posts with potentially misleading information, but will now actively remove certain posts. "This is based on confirmation from law enforcement that these rumors are forcing local fire and police agencies to divert resources from fighting the fires and protecting the public," Facebook's Communications officer Andy Stone wrote on Twitter. Experts say the increase in wildfires in 2020 is owing to weather conditions caused by climate change. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3iKm7   ed/rc (AP, AFP, dpa)