Your ticket to the German classical music festival scene: Concert Hour has the picks of the season — two hours of music updated regularly. Along with host Rick Fulker, the musicians themselves are on hand to give their insights into the events and the music. This time, in the age of corona, we'll hear the results of various experimental forms of music presentation.  Part one: A music bridge uniting Germany and Russia in May 2020 commemorated the 75th anniversary of the end of World War II. With musicians performing in empty halls — in Berlin, Moscow and St. Petersburg — they were joined in a joint video concert made possible with technical support from Deutsche Welle. For nine weeks in 2020, the West German Radio Symphony Orchestra in Cologne could neither rehearse nor perform. It was only in late June that there was an end to that stasis. Conductor Christian Macelaru put together a program lasting about an hour. The centerpiece: Leonard Bernstein's Serenade after Plato's Symposium. Set for violin, strings, harp and percussion, it last about half an hour and has five movements that are inspired by seven speakers in a lively philosophical discussion. And what about love? Imagine a convivial gathering in ancient Greece in the year 413 BC, where over red wine, seven illustrious intellectuals get together at the house of the poet Agathon to discuss the meaning of love, that most powerful force in the universe.  Cristian Măcelaru Pyotr Il'yich Tchaikovsky  The Seasons: May (Starlit Nights)  Denis Matsuev, piano  Recorded in the Tchaikovsky Concert Hall Moscow on May 8, 2020 Modest Mussorgsky   Pictures at an Exhibition: Tuileries  Mariinsky Wind Quintet  Recorded in the Mariinsky Concert Hall St. Petersburg on May 8, 2020 Olivier Messiaen   Quartet for the End of Time, 2nd movement: Vocalise   Sayako Kusaka, violin  Taneli Turunen, violoncello  Ralf Forster, clarinet  Martin Helmchen, piano  Recorded in the Konzerthaus Berlin on May 8, 2020 Sergei Rachmaninov   Romances: Spring Waters   Timuir Martynov, trumpet  Andrei Telkov, piano   Recorded in the Stravinisky Foyer of the Mariinsky Hall St. Petersburg on May 8, 2020 Leonard Bernstein  Serenade after Plato's Symposium Karen Gomyo, violin  West German Radio Symphony Orchestra  Cristian Măcelaru, conductor  Recorded by West German Radio Cologne (WDR) in the Cologne Philharmonie on June 11, 2020 Part two: This hour you'll hear ghost concerts: i.e., musicians onstage, auditorium empty and listeners mostly at home during the pandemic watching the performance on TV, listening on the radio or following the event on whatever kind of device in a live stream. But wherever the audience is, conductor Christian Macelaru doesn't feel that there's anything particularly spooky about a ghost concert. As he explained to DW, he always feels the connection to his listeners: "There is something magical that happens when you know that someone is listening to you and this is a live concert," says Macelaru. "Even through the internet or radio, we can tell when people are listening carefully. For me, people logging in to listen to us perform the concert is the substitute for the applause." Ludwig van Beethoven and the great outdoors is a subject that was highlighted on the United Nations' World Environment Day, June 5. Beethoven's Symphony No. 6 celebrates nature, and the Beethoven Pastoral Project invited creative ideas from around the globe having to do with Beethoven and his Pastoral Symphony. Amidst the pandemic, the contribution from Beethoven's hometown, Bonn, Germany was a bare-bones orchestra placed in Bonn's princely Redoute garden palace. With regulations in place in June 2020, thirteen orchestra members were admitted to participate: five strings, timpani and seven winds, with the strings situated in the hall and the wind players outside watching conductor Dirk Kaftan's motions on a monitor. The scaled-back version of Beethoven's Pastoral was adapted within a few days by the composer Lars Lange. Dirk Kaftan   Antonin Dvorak Serenade for Strings, opus 22, 3rd, 4th and 5th movements West German Radio Symphony Orchestra Cristian Măcelaru, conductor Recorded by West German Radio Cologne (WDR) in the Cologne Philharmonie on June 11, 2020 Johann Sebastian Bach   Cello Suite No. 5 in C Minor (excerpt)  Jens Peter Maintz, cello Partita No. 2 in C Minor, first movement            Martin Helmchen, piano Recorded in the Konzerthaus Berlin on May 8, 2020 Ludwig van Beethoven  Symphony No. 6 in F Major, op. 68 (Pastoral, excerpt)  Beethoven Orchestra Bonn Dirk Kaftan, conductor Recorded in the Redoute Bonn on June 5, 2020