While a drop in transportation during the coronavirus lockdowns has led to lower pollution levels across the world, the slowdown in traffic has also lowered another big polluter: noise. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), noise pollution affects over 100 million people across Europe and, in Western Europe alone, road traffic accounts for premature deaths equivalent to the loss of roughly "1.6 million healthy years of life." Take the disturbance to human health out of the equation, and noise remains a big source of pollution for the other inhabitants of the planet as well, namely, animals. But how much have animals in countries on lockdown really benefited from the drop in noise levels? Turns out, that's a very difficult question to answer. Read more: Are cities Europe's new biodiversity hotspots? Birds stand to benefit the most Birds — by far the most visible animals found in cities, and also the most vocal — stand to be among the biggest beneficiaries of quieter streets and parks. The signals birds send each other through song is a means of survival. Without the ability to sing, hear and be heard, birds would have a difficult time finding a mate or defending their territory from predators. There are reports of seeing more birds during the lockdown. Ornithologists say this is due to increased awareness of people's surroundings while at home Human activity influences bird behavior, even prompting them to communicate at less 'busy' times of day The swift rise of human-made noise — also known as anthropogenic noise — over the past century has made this harder for birds. Just like humans who have to speak up in a loud setting, birds, too, have to sing louder to communicate properly in today's noisy world, according to ornithologist Henrik Brumm, who heads the research group for the communication and social behavior of birds at the Max Planck Institute for Ornithology near Munich. "This happens really fast," Brumm told DW. "We found out that it takes roughly 300 milliseconds, so less than 1 second, for birds to readjust when the level of noise rises. So, when their surroundings become louder, they sing louder, too." Read more: Why nightingales love scruffy Berlin Are birds getting quieter? Maybe. Birds are already known to sing more quietly in the early morning hours of the weekends, says Brumm. The reason: there's less traffic to compete with. With Europe on lockdown, Germany for its part, has seen passenger air travel slashed by over 90%. Moreover, car traffic has dropped by more than 50% and trains are running at less 25% their usual rates. A recent study from the Max Planck Institute also suggests that chronic traffic noise can have a negative effect on embryo mortality and growth in zebra finches. This, in turn, could mean that the current lockdowns coinciding with mating season could lead to not only more, but also healthier hatchlings. That is, as long as their parents choose a spot that's still safe from humans after the lockdown ends. Though it's difficult to speculate without real-time data, Brumm says, it stands to reason that the current period of quiet could mean birds might be singing more softly than usual, which would already be a huge benefit. Read more: How a UK teen become one of world's top young birdwatchers At land or sea, noise is bad news for animals Birds aren't the only animals that stand to benefit from less noise. According to a recent study published in the journal Biology Letters, noise pollution affects any number of creatures ranging from frogs, to shrimp, to fish, mammals, mussels and snakes. In fact, another habitat garnering more and more attention for noise pollution is the ocean. As bioacoustics expert Christopher Clark described it in with Yale's environmental magazine, the din from oil and gas activity, for example, is filling entire ocean basins with "one big storm of noise." While research on noise pollution and marine life, just like with ornithology, is in its early stages, a landmark study conducted in the days after 9/11 found that less shipping traffic seemed to make whales calmer. Examining the feces of right whales — a species of baleen whale that can reach 15 meters in length and weigh up to 70 tons — researchers found that fewer ships in the waters along the US-Canadian coast correlated with lower stress hormones. The noise levels from shipping traffic, whose 20–200 Hz hum disturbs sea life despite being a low frequency, decreased by 6 decibels, with a significant reduction below 150Hz . Read more: WaddenSea, a bird's paradise An unprecedented time for researchers Just like ornithologists, marine life researchers have also found correlations between noise and interruptions in behaviors like foraging and mating. Whales, like birds, also "mask." That is to say, they sing louder to be heard over noise disturbances, be they high or low frequency sounds. "It's really a huge footprint that these activities have in the ocean," according to Nathan Merchant, an expert on noise and bioacoustics at the UK's Centre for Environment, Fisheries and Aquaculture Science (CEFAS). And the sources of noise pollution — ranging from shipping, to wind farms, to the sequence of powerful blasts from seismic air gun tests used to locate oil and gas deposits in the ocean deep — are even harder to escape in the ocean than on land. "It has a lot to do with how sound travels under water. Sound can travel much further and much faster than in air," Merchant told DW. Instruments off the coast of North America, for example, can detect seismic air gun testing as far away as the Brazilian coast. With many cruises suspended, oil freighter traffic impacted by an oil price crash and rig activity being run by skeleton crews to curb the spread of COVID-19, marine biologists could potentially find a treasure trove of data once they're allowed to go back into the field. "We have underwater noise recorders at sea as we speak, but they aren't cabled to land. So, we'll find out when get out on a ship in several months' time and get the data back," Merchant said. The more interesting question by that point might be how marine life responds to a sudden reintroduction of the human cacophony after an unexpected period of rest. The Marienplatz in front of Munich City Hall looks like an empty open-air theatre. Normally, many curious onlookers gather in front of the city hall watchtower which has a glockenspiel, where when the bells chime little figures re-enact two stories from the 16th century. Now only the police keep watch over the curfew. Among the many venues in the eternal city are the Spanish Steps behind the Barcaccia Fountain. With its barge shape, the fountain is a reminder of the will to survive during another catastrophe, the flood of 1598. The water in the fountain flows, but the stairs are deserted. Until recently, La Rambla was usually photographed with crowds of people to draw attention to the danger of overtourism. Now only a few pigeons amble around in the spring sun on one of Barcelona's main shopping streets. The Parisian boulevard, the city's main artery, seems to be frozen in time. A lonely Arc de Triomphe, few vehicles in the distance, and the traffic light is on red. The river Thames also looks more peaceful than usual. No pleasure boats, no tourists. Currently, only a fraction of the usual number of pedestrians and vehicles have to cross the river on Tower Bridge. The square in front of Hagia Sophia often resembles a fairground with thousands of tourists and passing traders. These days the view expands onto one of the oldest buildings of the ancient world. The domed basilica from the 6th century is considered unique and is waiting to show its treasures again. Peter the Great entered Moscow on one of the main roads, and later the wide boulevard of Tverskaya Street was also used for huge military parades. In spring 2020 a convoy of disinfection vehicles dominates the Moscow streetscape. Even the tombs of the pharaohs are now only visited by disinfection workers. Whether this will help to win back confidence in traveling remains to be seen. The pyramids of Giza have weathered quite different crises throughout world history. Mecca is considered one of the most important pilgrimage sites for devout Muslims. About 3 million come here every year. But this year there has also been a curfew here since April 2. And where normally hundreds of thousands of pilgrims gather, there are only people in protective suits who disinfect the huge oval around the Kaaba. Many world cultural historical monuments are reminders of how they are currently being guarded by military might. Even at the Taj Mahal in India, a monument of love, soldiers are keeping watch to prevent crowds of people gathering here. Locations that are often regarded as the center of the world seem ghostly. Like Times Square in New York. Everything seems to have come to a standstill, in a state of perpetual waiting. Pedestrian crossings without pedestrians, traffic lights without vehicles, shops without customers. Everything is different, even in the city that never sleeps. A deserted Bourbon Street in New Orleans appears like a reminder of acceleration. Here too, the coronavirus had an easy time of it when people thought it didn't affect them. So instead they continued to celebrate in droves the Mardi Gras during carnival. The wide beach, the sea and the silhouette of Rio de Janeiro. Even the Copacabana in Brazil, otherwise one of the liveliest leisure resorts in the world, seems to be suspended. Only the gentle waves of the Atlantic Ocean signal movement. A mood like a famous Bossa Nova: Chega de Saudade (Stop the longing). A gaping void in front of an iconic architectural icon down under. The Sydney Opera House also reminds us to stay at home. The doors are closed until further notice, but there are weekly live broadcasts and recordings from the archive, transmitted digitally into people's living rooms. At the end of March, the Great Wall of China was partially reopened to visitors after a two-month closure. A photo that offers hope: There can be, and there will be a renaissance in traveling! Author: Andreas Kirchhoff