Across the world, many countries have imposed lockdown measures to contain coronavirus outbreaks. By international comparison, Germany has so far weathered the pandemic reasonably well — even though the virus continues to spread here, too. People are dying, and hundreds of thousands are out of work and deprived of income. Germany has introduced only limited restrictions on public life, and the COVID-19 death toll remains low compared with many other countries. There has also been a remarkably broad consensus that social distancing measures are essential to contain the pandemic. Read more: Germany: Record number of workers on reduced hours Martin Muno Yet this consensus is now beginning to erode. Increasingly, people are flocking to high streets and parks, ignoring social distancing rules. Business representatives have begun calling for restrictions on commerce to be lifted as soon as possible. Rather distastefully, Boris Palmer of the Greens party recently said that many of the often elderly individuals whom the measures are designed to protect might have passed away soon, anyway. Theater director Frank Castorf has complained that he doesn't want "a fretful Mrs. Merkel telling me I need to wash my hands." And the well-known virologist Christian Drosten reportedly even received death threats for supporting the public health measures. Read more: World's top coronavirus experts face fame, scorn amid pandemic Nostalgia for February Not all of the complaints are misplaced. It's perfectly understandable that some parents of young children are desperate to see day care centers and playgrounds reopen. It's only natural that we want to return to the time before the coronavirus pandemic. Back then, we had other serious problems on our hands: climate change, displaced people drowning in the Mediterranean Sea, airlines going bankrupt and US President Donald Trump spouting nonsense. None of these problems have gone away. But, at least back then, we could still visit our relatives, grab a drink at the local bar, hug friends. Christians could still go to Sunday church, and Muslims were free to break the daily Ramadan fast together. None of this nostalgia is any help right now. A return to that type of normality isn't on the horizon anytime soon. At first, the lockdown seemed like an exciting break from our everyday lives. Now, many of us have grown weary of the restrictions — with no end in sight. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3bczT A healthy debate? There is confusion over whether face masks really help protect wearers from spreading or contracting the virus. It seems that German lawmakers are sending mixed messages, and even the country's disease control and prevention authority, the Robert Koch Institute, has failed to offer a clear answer. Germany's 16 federal states have not adopted a shared position on when wearing a mask is mandatory, either. All this somewhat undermines the public's trust in politicians and experts. Read more: Coronavirus tracking apps: How are countries monitoring infections? The curtailment of constitutionally guaranteed rights that we are experiencing today is unprecedented, which is why we need to carefully weigh the pros and cons. The debate over a coronavirus app that would store personal data — and for how long the data is stored — illustrates this well. We also need to discuss which lockdown measures should be lifted and when, even if Chancellor Angela Merkel disapproves. Making a trade-off All the considerations sometimes make us forget what we're up against: a virus that threatens the health, and even lives, of countless people across the world. We need to stick to the policy of flattening the curve. Otherwise, we will see a huge spike in infections — and millions of deaths. All this should be abundantly clear, though some are starting to raise doubts or downplay the danger. Read more: Museums prepare for reopening amid coronavirus crisis We have to balance the costs of temporarily sacrificing civil liberties with the benefit of keeping people healthy. It's a trade-off we all — from Chancellor Merkel to cashiers at the supermarket — have to make. We must take social distancing seriously, no matter how unpopular it may be. What matters is that all decisions must be reached via the democratic process. They must be reached on the basis of free, transparent discussions and decision-making processes. And we also need to reconsider the notion of liberty. Maybe, in these times, liberty isn't so much about doing what we want to do. Instead, today, liberty is maybe more about making rational choices, as the philosopher Georg Friedrich Wilhelm Hegel argued. This, by extension, would mean simply accepting the lockdowns. It would present a major risk if vast crowds of Muslim worshippers flocked to the Kaaba at the Great Mosque of Mecca. This picture shows a handful of individuals who did come to the Great Mosque when Ramadan began –— though most of those depicted are actually cleaners. This Sri Lankan family in Malwana is breaking the fast. Sitting close together around an array of dishes, they pray, before enjoying their meal. By Europeans standards, this gathering would somewhat contravene social distancing rules. It is being reported that in Israel, residents are taking social distancing very seriously. These Muslim men, for example, have gathered at a parking lot near Jaffa beach to pray — the markings on the ground help them keep a safe distance. Imam Bambang Suprianto from the Indonesian capital, Jakarta, is relying on the city's mobile phone and internet infrastructure to reach worshipers. Pictured here at Sunda Kelapa mosque, Suprianto is live streaming his Quran reading via social media platforms. Wearing a mask covering his mouth and nose, meanwhile, sets a great example for others to follow. This sign outside Masjid Al-Salaam mosque in Dearborn Community Center, Michigan, reads: "Ramadan Kareem," which roughly translates to "may Ramadan be generous to you." The letters were put in place by staff at the center to announce the beginning of the Muslim holy month. With mosque visits out of the question, worshippers can still pray in solitude. Sitting on a rug on a Colombo rooftop, in the Sri Lankan capital, this boy awaits the moment to end his daily Ramadan fast. Imam Benjamin Idriz records a Quran recitation via smartphone to upload later. This photo shows him at the Penzberg Islamic Forum, a mosque inaugurated in southern Bavaria in 2005. This place of worship won an architectural prize — and even with this limited view, it's not hard to see why. This is Istanbul's Galata Tower in the city's Beyoglu district. Usually the area is teeming with people, yet with Turkey also fighting the coronavirus pandemic most people are avoiding crowds. Mosques across the country have been told to stay closed, despite Ramadan. Some things don't change, no matter the circumstances. Seen here is a muezzin in the Nepalese capital, Kathmandu, reciting the azan, or Islamic summons to prayer. Throughout the entire month of Ramadan, the call will be heard several times a day, as always. This Singapore convention center is normally used for exhibitions and trade shows. But with much of the world's economic life having come to a near standstill amid the lockdown, this space has now been converted into a COVID-19 ward — complete with a special space for worshippers to pray during Ramadan. Author: Marko Langer Every day, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. Sign up for the newsletter here.