Free Internet is not a given. Many undemocratic governments block unwanted websites or control what their citizens do online. The fear of being discovered, in turn, slows down the creativity of Internet users and their will to express themselves freely. To make detection more difficult for authorities, resourceful hackers have developed systems such as the Tor network, or search engines that allow users to use the Internet largely anonymously. Services such as Psiphon or VPN connections are available to enable users in censored media markets to have free access to blocked information. Read more: Tor, Psiphon, Signal and Co.: How to move unrecognized on the internet Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3NdiW Making Internet censorship public with OONI However, the fight against Internet censorship is a constant game of hide and seek and software developers sometimes need the help of the users, for whom they program the software. On April 21, the Open Observatory of Network Interference (OONI) therefore launched the OONI Probe App. The app allows users to discover various forms of Internet censorship and at the same time, to control network speed and performance as well as video streaming performance. "The goal is to detect website blocking worldwide," says DW IT-expert Oliver Linow. "So far, this has been available as an Android app. Now it's available as a desktop app for Windows and Mac OS." OONI automatically makes the results public, unless the user doesn't want that, and changes the settings of the device accordingly. Publicity creates pressure The creators of OONI want to collect and publish as much data as possible on internet censorship in the hope of generating political pressure. In concrete terms, the app checks whether someone is blocking websites or access to social media and similar communication tools such as WhatsApp, Facebook Messenger or Telegram. OONI does the same for the Tor network and Psiphon. Read more: DW defies tighter Internet censorship in China "Sovereign internet" - a euphemism for an intranet controlled by the government. Cartoon by Sergey Elkin. In addition, the app detects whether telecommunication providers or governments have installed so-called middleboxes. These are mechanisms that control Internet traffic. Middleboxes are an important tool for internet censors to find out which websites should be blocked. Besides English, the OONI app is also available in Chinese, Russian, Spanish, French, Turkish, Thai, Italian, Greek, Catalan, Slovak, Portuguese and German. Many participants, great impact "Anyone can download the app and run scans with it. Then the app checks whether the services can be accessed from the respective computer," says DW expert Linow. So OONI needs as many volunteers as possible to participate. "The data is then collected and processed by OONI." If you run a website yourself and suspect that someone is blocking your site, you can register your site with OONI. Then the app will check if this suspicion is true. "This is a very long list, which is processed by the app. You will find your desired URL somewhere in the list, and then it will be checked", says Linow. But users should always be careful. Using the app is not completely risk-free. Dictatorial regimes could possibly react with punishment and persecution. Read more: Iran blocks use of tool to get around online filter The wunderkind from the early days of computer technology, the Commodore PET 2001 was released in 1977. Built to last, most are still fully functional. In 2016, the German Museum of Digital Culture (Deutsches Museum der digitalen Kultur) in Dortmund will put the old treasure in an honorable position. Its retro look is once again fashionable. The first computer to use the binary number system of 1s and 0s was built by German mechanical engineer Konrad Zuse, who worked for the Nazi government. The computer was constructed out of old recycled materials, a keypunch out of film. A visit to the Nuremberg Computer Trade Fair in 1982 astounded the man who saw what had been accomplished out of his initial invention. Konrad Zuse created a first programmable calculator in 1938. Three years later, he completed the world's first computer, the Z3. The size of three clothing wardrobes, it weighed one metric ton. The machine could take up to one second or more to process. The original was destroyed during World War II; a reconstruction can be found in the German Museum in Munich. The personal computer first entered the American market in 1974. Quickly thereafter, computer clubs were founded as were Altair Circles, for those interested in the original Altair computer. Apple founders Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak were often present at these meetings, inspired as they were by the technology. The Altair 8800 really hit a nerve in its day. Steve Wozniak's garage, in which the Apple I computer came to life, has become something of a legend. What looked at the time like a converted television for hobbyists costs $666.66 (584 euros) at the time. Keyboard and housing were sold separately. Today, the Apple I computers are well-loved and quite expensive collector's pieces - worth thousands of dollars. Although IBM introduced its first personal computer in 1981, the company earned its success through the sales to companies of larger computers that were longer-lasting. The IBM System/360 came on the market already back in 1964, a system comprised of numerous large computers, separate machines for business, industry, research and th execuitve offices, which could be combined based on needs. Steve Jobs quickly gained influence over the product palette on offer from Apple, the innovative computer firm he founded in California's not-yet-named Silicon Valley. The new Apple model, the Apple II, stood out for its simple, puritanical look. On sale as of 1977, the legendary design object is now housed in the Museum of the Moving Image in New York. Over the years, Microsoft developed as a competitor to the Apple computer based on its innovative developments in software and operating systems. While Microsoft stayed true to the bland grays of the office computer, Apple turned its attention to aesthetics, launching the first iMac in 1998, available in a semi-transparent turquoise and with rounded corners. A microprocessor was first released in 1971 by Intel - a technological wonder that brought computers quickly up to speed while reducing their size. Growing increasingly smaller and more powerful, in the meantime, such tiny chips have become a bit of a design accessory. The chips have made PCs and laptops into a technological wonder. The future belongs to the tablet. Especially for people who travel frequently, the small, hand-held flatscreen with a mini-computer inside is valuable. Small enough to fit into handbags and be taken out in the train or plane without disturbing your neighbor, the tablet can act as a newspaper, a video player and an internet connection all in one. A watch in which you can not only check the time, but also read your e-mails and monitor your health, the Smartwatch hit the market a few years ago, but it became popular once Apple released its version in 2015. The Apple Watch is now a status symbol - especially the 18-karat gold edition, which can be acquired for 11,000 euros ($12,500). Author: Heike Mund / cat