Mir Shakil-ur-Rehman (main picture), owner and editor-in-chief of Jang Publications, Pakistan's largest media group, was arrested last month on accusations of unlawfully buying a property in the 1980s. The country's National Accountability Bureau (NAB) alleges that Rehman illegally leased government land in 1986 and managed to have ownership rights transferred to him in 2016 when ex-Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif was at the helm. Sharif was Punjab province's chief minister in the 1980s. Nawazish Ali, a NAB spokesperson, told DW that Rehman was arrested in connection with a shady real estate deal and tax evasion. He refused to talk about the current status of the investigation. Pakistani journalists and international media organizations have dubbed Rehman's arrest as "politically motivated" and an attack on press freedom. "The NAB had already decided to arrest Rehman. They didn't find anything against him so they opened a 34-year-old land purchase case," Umar Cheema, an investigative journalist associated with Rehman's Jang media group, told DW. Read more: Sajid Baloch: Fears grow for Pakistani journalist missing in Sweden Rights activists say that Rehman's arrest has vindicated their claim that Prime Minister Imran Khan's government is trying to muzzle freedom of speech and silence critical voices in the country. "Rehman's arrest is clearly aimed at hurting the largest media group in Pakistan. The government is cracking down on media to prevent it from giving space to the opposition. It has even imposed restrictions on social media," Adnan Rehmat, an Islamabad-based rights activist and columnist, told DW. Subscribe to Corona Compact — DW's newsletter tracking coronavirus in Asia Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3bCgq International condemnation On Monday, EU spokesperson for foreign affairs and security policy, Virginie Battu-Henriksson, urged Pakistani authorities to ensure a fair trial for Rehman. Battu-Henriksson said the EU was firmly committed to supporting progress on human rights, democracy and the implementation of international conventions in Pakistan. "These commitments also form a fundamental condition of the EU's GSP Plus trade preferences granted unilaterally to Pakistan," she said, highlighting media freedom in Pakistan as an area of particular concern. The New York-based Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) and the Paris-based Reporters Without Borders (RSF) also slammed Rehman's arrest. "It is six weeks now since Mir Shakil-ur-Rehman was arrested on totally absurd and spurious grounds. Let's not be fooled. His arrest and detention have absolutely no legal basis," Daniel Bastard, RSF's Asia-Pacific director, said in a statement. RSF's recently released World Press Freedom Index for 2020 ranked Pakistan 145 out of 180 countries, three places lower than last year. Read more: Press freedom: What happened to missing Bangladeshi journalist Shafiqul Kajol? Opposition groups and civil society activists say space for dissent and independent journalism has considerably reduced in Pakistan since Khan came to power in 2018. "Rehman's arrest is an attack on press freedom and NAB has been used as a hit man to harass him," said journalist Cheema. But the government has denied these allegations. "It is unjustified to link the arrest [made] on financial wrongdoing to freedom of expression," said Firdous Ashiq Awan, Khan's special assistant for information and broadcasting. Michael Kugelman, a South Asia expert at the Washington-based Woodrow Wilson Center for Scholars, believes Rehman's case has all the makings of a politicized arrest. "This is a senior figure with a media outlet that hasn't gotten along well with the state, and who was arrested on questionable charges tied to circumstances that go back more than three decades. While one wouldn't want to pass definitive judgment and speculate, one can say that the optics of it all are quite dreadful," Kugelman told DW. Read more: What's causing poor journalistic practice in Pakistan? Imran Khan was born in Lahore in 1952, the son of a civil engineer. Khan grew up with his four sisters in a relatively affluent part of the city. He received a privileged education, first in his hometown and then in Worcester, England. It was there that Khan's love and talent for the game of cricket became evident. In 1972, he enrolled at Oxford University to study politics and economics. Khan played cricket throughout his time in England and after returning to his native Pakistan in 1976, he quickly became a regular in the national team. By 1982, he was awarded the captain's armband. Khan enjoyed an illustrious career and was regarded by many as one of the best all-rounders in the world. The ultimate high point of Khan's sporting career saw him captain Pakistan to the 1992 Cricket World Cup in Melbourne, Australia. As if his popularity couldn't get any bigger back home, Khan even took the winning wicket in the final against England. Khan enjoyed hedonistic bachelor life and was a regular fixture on London's nightlife scene. However, in 1995, at age 42, he finally tied the knot to 21-year-old Jemima Goldsmith. During their nine-year marriage, the famous couple provided plenty of fodder for the British and Pakistani tabloids. Despite separating in 2004, Goldsmith has remained a vocal supporter of Khan's politics. Khan wasted little time after retiring from cricket in 1994. Just two years later he entered Pakistani politics and founded the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party. However, his popularity was slow to carry over from cricket into politics. In the 1997 general elections, his PTI party failed to win a single seat. Khan remained active in politics over the next decades. In 1999, he supported General Pervez Musharraf's military coup, only to later turn against Musharraf ahead of the 2007 presidential election. Khan was subsequently placed under house arrest and even spent a few days in prison. However, his supporter base continued to grow, and by 2013 he became a key candidate in the general elections. The PTI made substantial gains in the 2013 election, claiming 30 parliamentary seats and finishing second behind the Pakistan Muslim League. The party became the main opposition in the key provinces of Punjab and Sindh. However, its greatest feat was winning its first province in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. Khan has often been the butt of jokes for his pacifist stance towards terrorism in the region. He earned the moniker "Taliban Khan" for claiming that the only way to achieve peace with the Taliban in neighboring Afghanistan was through negotiation. Khan was also a vocal critic of US drones strikes on Pakistan and has promised to disengage Pakistan from America's conflicts in the Middle East. Since his divorce from Goldsmith in 2004, Khan has remarried twice. In January 2015, Khan announced his marriage to British-Pakistani journalist Reham Khanm although just 10 months later the couple said they were filing for divorce. In February 2018, Khan married his third wife, Bushra Manika (pictured front row, second from the left), whom he describes as his spiritual adviser. By 2018, Khan's PTI were among the favorites going into the general election. Campaigning on a populist platform, Khan pledged to break away from Pakistan's corrupt legacy. His plans include a poverty reduction program similar to that seen in China. This would see the establishment of an "Islamic welfare state," the creation of 10 million jobs and construction of 5 million homes for the poor. Khan completed his journey from all-star cricketer to political leader on July 26, 2018. With most votes counted, the PTI is expected win up to 119 seats in Pakistan's 272-seat parliament. "I started this struggle 22 years ago and today I have been given a chance to fulfill what I dreamed for the country," Khan said in a televised speech. "We will run Pakistan like it's never been run before." Author: David Martin Khan's personal vendetta? Khan's relations with Rehman and his media group have been strained since he became prime minister in 2018, defeating ex-PM Sharif in general elections. Khan's Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) party accuses the Jang group — and its popular Geo TV channel — of backing Sharif. Jang and Dawn media groups have also been on a collision course with the country's powerful army, which many analysts allege played a role in bringing Khan to power. Khan in the past has accused Rehman and the Jang group of working against the country. Read more: Pakistani broadcaster risks ban for upsetting ISI "Rehman's arrest is part of Khan's tough stance against media that dares to criticize his government or give coverage to the opposition, especially leaders of the Pakistan Muslim League (Nawaz) party," said analyst Rehmat. Rehman's Geo TV channel has been taken off the air several times in the past few years. "The arrest is because of his media group supporting Sharif or due to not accepting to censor. It could be one or the other, or a combination of the two. But the bottom line is that a senior figure with one of the country's top media outlets finds himself in jail on questionable charges, at a moment when Pakistan is confronting the COVID-19 pandemic that could well hit prisons hard. It is a very troubling state of affairs, to say the least," Kugelman said. Read more: China's lack of press freedom causes problems for the world Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3QPWZ Every day, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. Sign up for the newsletter here.