US space agency NASA and US aeronautics company SpaceX will resume astronaut launches from the United States on May 27, NASA announced Friday, after nine years of dependence on Russia's space program. The launch would be the first time a private company sends astronauts into orbit. "On May 27, @NASA will once again launch American astronauts on American rockets from American soil!" head of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Jim Bridenstine wrote in a tweet. NASA has not launched astronauts into orbit from the US since its most recent space shuttle flight in 2011. The May mission aims to send two NASA astronauts to the International Space Station (ISS) located over 250 miles (400 kilometers) above the Earth. Read more: SpaceX plans to send tourists to International Space Station SpaceX makes history, again Astronauts Doug Hurley and Bob Behnken will take off from Kennedy Space Center launch pad in Florida on the SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket aboard a SpaceX Crew Dragon spacecraft. This was the same launchpad used by Atlantis, the shuttle used in 2011, and by the Apollo spacecraft that made the historic first mission to the moon over half a century ago. Liftoff time is scheduled for 4:32 p.m. EDT (20:32 UTC). Russia, the United States and China are the only countries to have launched people into space, with the first mission taking place in 1961. SpaceX will be the first company to do so. In 2015, the company made space history by successfully developing and launching rockets that can be reused. SpaceX successfully sent a test flight with a mannequin on board to the ISS last year. The company, founded by tech entrepreneur Elon Musk, has been launching cargo to the space station using Falcon 9 rockets since 2012. The Crew Dragon capsule to be used in the May launch is a modified version of the capsule used for cargo missions. Independence from Russia Currently, there are two Russian cosmonauts and one American astronaut aboard the ISS. Once they arrive, Hurley and Behnken will spend weeks or months helping maintain the lab. NASA is also currently in the process of acquiring another seat aboard a Russia rocket. Since 2011, Russia Soyuz capsules have transported all crew to and from the space station. NASA began using private companies such as SpaceX for deliveries after its shuttle program came to an end. US aeronautics company Boeing has also been vying to launch NASA astronauts, but an unmanned test flight launched last year failed to reach the space station and was nearly destroyed twice by software errors. The company is planning another test flight in autumn. The new NASA Mars rover has arrived. It will support the currently operating Curiosity rover in its work on the red planet. The new rover weighs just over 1 tonne (2,000 lbs) and is therefore 100 kg heavier than its predecessor. And, at 3 meters in size, it is also 10 centimeters longer. It can load more research equipment and sensors, and its gripper arm with cameras and tools is also stronger. This is what the rover looks like when it travels. On board a C-17 Globemaster, it traveled from California to Florida in the US. From there, it will set off to Mars on July 17. The new rover is able to collect samples from Mars. It is equipped with 23 cameras and many other instruments. Among other things, it aims to find out whether oxygen can be extracted from the Martian rocks. Curiosity is the largest and most modern of all Mars rovers currently deployed. It landed on August 6, 2012 and has since traveled more than 21 kilometers. It is much more than just a rover. Its official name is "Mars Science Laboratory," and it really is a complete lab on wheels. For example, it contains special spectrometer, which can analyze chemical compounds from a distance with the help of a laser; a complete meteorological station that can measure temperature, atmospheric pressure, radiation, humidity and wind speed; and most importantly, a chemistry lab that can run detailed analyses of organic compounds and is always on the hunt for traces of alien life. Curiosity has shown that life would theoretically be possible on Mars. But it hasn't discovered any life, yet. The robot's arm is equipped with a full power drill. Here, it's taking a sample in "Yellowknife Bay" inside the Gale Crater. The Mars dust is processed by a large number of instruments. First, it's filtered and separated into different-sized particles. Then, those get sorted and sent off to different analytical laboratory machines. Curiosity's predecessors were much smaller. On July 4, 1997, the small Mars rover Sojourner left its first tire tracks behind in the dust of the red planet. It was the first time a mobile robot had been left to its own devices there, equipped with an X-ray spectrometer to conduct chemical analyses and with optical cameras. Three rover generations. (The tiny one up front is Sojourner.) At 10.6 kilograms (23 pounds), it's not much bigger than a toy car. Its top speed: 1 centimeter per second. Opportunity weighs 185 kilograms — roughly the equivalent of an electric wheelchair. Curiosity is as big as a small car, at 900 kilograms. The big ones travel up to 4 or 5 centimeters per second. Sojourner travelled about 100 meters during its lifetime and delivered data and pictures until September 27, 1997. This is one of the last pictures of it, taken nine days before the radio connection broke down. Sojourner probably died because the battery did not survive the cold nights. Without the experience of Sojourner, newer rovers could have hardly been envisaged. In 2004, NASA landed two robots of the same model on Mars: Spirit and Opportunity. Spirit survived for six years, travelling a distance of 7.7 kilometers. The robot climbed mountains, took soil samples and withstood winter and sandstorms. Its sibling, Opportunity, lost contact on February 13, 2019. Opportunity passed the marathon distance of 42 kilometers back in 2015, and to this day, it has covered much more ground than Curiosity. It can take ground probes with its arm. It has three different spectrometers and even a 3D camera. It was last operating in "Perseverance Valley," an appropriate workplace for the sturdy robot, before being incapacitated by a sand storm. This panorama was taken by Curiosity's mast camera. The most modern of the rovers will stay in service as long as possible — hopefully at least another five years and much longer. The Martian landscape looks familiar somehow, not unlike some deserts here on Earth. Should we give in to our wanderlust, then — or would it be better leave Mars to the robots? Author: Fabian Schmidt kp/sms (AFP, AP) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.