An international team of scientists have identified an "extremely energetic supernova from a very massive star" and said it was the biggest explosion ever recorded, according to a study published on Monday. The astronomers believe that the supernova was originally formed from the merging of two massive stars because of the unusually high amount of hydrogen contained in the explosive cloud. Such a phenomenon so far only exists in theory and has never been confirmed through astronomical observations, according to the scientists. Read more: No perfect calendar: Why we have leap years and why the Earth's always out of sync 'The most massive' The team of astronomers, led by the University of Birmingham in the UK and the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics in the US, observed the explosion for two years and recorded their findings in the peer reviewed journal Nature Astronomy. Dubbed SN2016aps, the experts said the phenomenon is an example of an "extremely rare pulsational pair-instability" supernova. "Stars with extremely large mass undergo violent pulsations before they die, shaking off a giant gas shell. This can be powered by a process called the pair instability, which has been a topic of speculation for physicists for the last 50 years," said Matt Nicholl from the School of Physics and Astronomy and the Institute of Gravitational Wave Astronomy in Birmingham. "If the supernova gets the timing right, it can catch up to this shell and release a huge amount of energy in the collision. We think this is one of the most compelling candidates for this process yet observed, and probably the most massive," he explained. According to NASA research, the moon is slowly losing heat, which causes its surface to shrivel up like a grape turning into a raisin. But that's not all: its interior is shrinking! The moon has become about 50 meters (150 feet) "skinnier" over the past several hundred million years. Conspiracy theorists believe that the lunar landing was a fake, and that Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin walked around on July 21st, 1969, on a soundstage instead of the moon. They point to the fact that the flag planted by Aldrin waved as if moved by the wind, which would be impossible in space's vacuum. NASA's explanation: Aldrin was twisting the flagpole while planting it in the ground. If it's summer in your neck of the woods, you might be sweating right now. But just remember: temperatures are little more extreme on the moon. When the sun hits its surface, it can get up to 127 degrees Celsius (260 degrees Fahrenheit) hot. Without the warm glow, temperatures can drop down to -153 degrees Celsius (-243 degrees Fahrenheit). Brrr! The myth of a person living on the moon has existed for almost as long as Earth's satellite itself. Some people see a face on the surface of the full moon, composed of the dark lunar plains and the lighter lunar highlands. Many cultures have tales about an actual person who committed some kind of misdeed and was banished to the moon for it. Astronauts are yet to encounter them, though. The moon is drifting away from Earth at a speed of almost 4 centimeters (1.5 inches) per year. The farther away our satellite is, the smaller it appears to us. In about 550 million years, it'll look too small to ever "cover" all of the sun, even at its closest position to Earth. That'll mean no more total solar eclipses. Ah, howling at the moon — no old-timey scary movie is complete without it. But in fact, wolves do not intensify their howling when a full moon rolls around, and they don't direct their howls at the moon, either. They simply yowl at night, which is also the time when a full moon is most visible. That could be one reason our ancestors drew the connection. 12 humans have walked on the moon so far. While they come from various professional fields, they have a couple of things in common: All of them are American, all of them are white and all of them are men. Let's see where the first non-American on the moon will be from — maybe it'll be a woman and/or person of color, too! Author: Carla Bleiker 10 times more powerful According to the study, the supernova is 10 times stronger than a normal supernova and about 500 times as bright. In addition to its impressive size and brightness, it was "spectacular" in other properties as well, the scientists said. "In a typical supernova, the radiation is less than 1 per cent of the total energy. But in SN2016aps, we found the radiation was five times the explosion energy of a normal-sized supernova. This is the most light we have ever seen emitted by a supernova," said Nicholl. Usually supernovas only emit 1% of their energy in visible light, but the SN2016aps emits a far greater proportion. SN2016aps is estimated to contain the energy equivalent to a record 200 trillion trillion gigatons of TNT. TNT is a convention for expressing energy including the energy released during an explosion. Read more: What's happening in the night sky in 2020? A new key to unlock secrets of the universe Scientists hope that the discovery of SN2016aps will lead to the detection of other similar supernovas and help look back to conditions in the early days of the universe. "Finding this extraordinary supernova couldn't have come at a better time," said Edo Berger, one of the co-authors from Harvard University. "Now that we know such energetic explosions occur in nature, NASA's new James Webb Space Telescope will be able to see similar events so far away that we can look back in time to the deaths of the very first stars in the Universe." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3PUEE Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.