In an apparent bid to deter asylum-seekers from providing false information about their identities, the German government plans on making it harder for foreign nationals to attain citizenship, Die Welt newspaper reported on Friday. A draft law drawn up by the Interior Ministry targets immigrants who have been living in Germany under a false name or provided authorities with incorrect information about their country of origin when they arrived. Currently, foreigners are generally eligible for German citizenship if they've lived in the country for eight years or more. Under the new law, the years that an immigrant lived under a false identity would no longer count towards the total years required to attain citizenship. Read more: 20.8 million people in Germany with immigrant background Changes for residence permits The draft law would also create a second significant hurdle to citizenship by changing the rules on residence permits. Under the new measures, immigrants found living under a false identity would be denied an unlimited or permanent residence permit. The law would make "the clarification of identity and nationality" a prerequisite for attaining permanent resident status. Immigrants could still attain a time-limited residency permit, but the permanent resident status is required for German citizenship. Read more: Descendants of Nazi victims want German citizenship Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3SrVW Withholding citizenship from children The German government's plans also have a direct impact on children of foreign nationals — even if they were born in Germany. Until now, babies born in Germany to two non-German parents can typically become citizens if one of their parents has been living in the country for eight years. Under the new rules, children would only be granted German citizenship if their parents prove their identity and nationality. The Interior Ministry's draft law is currently being reviewed by the other ministries and must gain their approval before moving on to parliament. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/2e15Z rs/rt (AFP, dpa) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.