Updates in Universal Coordinated Time (UTC/GMT) 05:00 Coronavirus won't necessarily blow a hole in the German budget. The country might be able to rein in the debt incurred to manage the coronavirus pandemic if the economy improves in the second half of the year, Finance Minister Olaf Scholz said in an interview published on Sunday. 04:55 The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Germany has risen by 2,458 to 139,897, according to German disease control and prevention agency the Robert Koch Institute (RKI). That rise is lower than a 3,609 increase reported on Saturday The number of deaths rose by 184 to 4,294. Some 2,700 more people had recovered than the previous day according to Sunday's figures, bringing the total to about 88,000. Figures compiled by the RKI depend on data being transmitted from state and local levels to a national one, meaning they can differ to those published in real time by the Johns Hopkins University. Panic-buying has left empty shelves in supermarkets — and food banks. With Germans snapping up canned goods and toilet paper to weather the outbreak, stores have fewer supplies left over to donate to the needy, said Jochen Brühl, head of Tafel Deutschland, which supports more than 1.5 million people with surplus groceries and other donations. Brühl encouraged those who had overreacted to donate. After playing one match behind closed doors, the Bundesliga has suspended its season until at least April 2. The Germany football league had considered playing matches behind closed doors until Paderborn's coach Steffen Baumgart and defender Luca Kilian tested positive for COVID-19. Cultural life has also taken a hit, with major fairs and trade shows canceled or postponed. Among the casualties were the Leipzig Book Fair and the Musikmesse Frankfurt, Europe's biggest music trade fair. Numerous clubs, galleries and museums have closed across the country, and the gala award show for the annual German film and television award, the Goldene Kamera, has been moved to November. The Chinese origin of the virus has led to an increase in xenophobic sentiment in the places worst hit by the outbreak. Asian restaurants and stores — not just Chinese — have reported empty tables in countries hard hit by the pandemic, and people with Asian features have experienced discrimination. At a recent Bundesliga game in Leipzig, a group of Japanese fans was ejected from the stadium. German airline Lufthansa has massively reduced its flight capacity as business and personal travel is cut back. The flagship carrier is now seeking state aid, according to a report from Germany business newspaper Handelsblatt. Lufthansa CEO Carsten Spohr will be attending a meeting with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, according to government sources. Car plants in China have been shut down since January, and major German automakers like Volkswagen and Daimler have said both sales and production have been hit by the epidemic. And with many automakers sourcing electric car parts from China, work at plants in Germany has also hit a stumbling block. Berlin has said it plans to financially support companies suffering coronavirus losses. "The consequences for the German tourism sector are serious," warned Guido Zöllick, head of the German Hotel and Restaurant Association. Already by the second week of March, 76.1% of members had reported a sharp decrease in bookings and a drop in revenue. The German parliament has banned tourists from visiting the glass dome of the Reichstag building until further notice. In an effort to prevent further spread, Germany has closed its borders with France, Luxembourg, Switzerland, Austria and Denmark. Authorities in Poland and the Czech Republic had already begun spot checks, measuring the temperature of travelers crossing main road borders out of Germany. Preschools and primary schools across Germany have shut. The closures have affected more than 2.2 million children up to age 16 countrywide, according to Germany's Federal Statistical Office. German television stations have adjusted their programming in response to the school closures. Author: Martin Kuebler 03:45 Germany is still trying to repatriate around 1,000 of its citizens, after successfully retrieving some 240,000 German nationals who were stranded abroad following the coronavirus outbreak. German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas told Bild am Sonntag newspaper that there are still between "a few hundred and a thousand citizens" waiting for the opportunity to return to Germany. Many of those who already returned were coming from popular tourist destinations. For those who are still abroad, arranging their return has been more difficult, Maas said. "We're talking about people in the Colombian jungle, on remote South Sea islands, or in countries where air traffic is completely shut down at the moment," Maas said. "We can't help everyone immediately, but we won’t forget anyone." 02:55 The coronavirus pandemic could lead Venezuela to postpone its parliamentary elections scheduled for December, President Nicholas Maduro said. "I don't know if there will be elections this year because we have other priorities," Maduro said in an interview. "It would be irresponsible to say we will hold elections, whatever it may cost." The parliament is Venezuela's only institution controlled by the opposition. Its leader, Juan Guaido, declared himself the country's interim president and called for Maduro to step down, accusing him of election fraud. According to official figures, Venezuela has 227 confirmed coronavirus cases, and nine people have died. 02:30 China recorded 16 new cases of coronavirus on Saturday, according to data reported Sunday, down from 27 the day before and the country's lowest daily figure in over a month. Just nine of the new cases were imported infections, the lowest number of imported cases seen in China since March 13, down from 17 a day earlier. The other seven cases were locally transmitted, down from 10 the day before. Of asymptomatic cases, 44 new instances were reported on Saturday, down from 54 the day before. No new deaths were reported on Saturday. China has confirmed a total of 82,735 cases of coronavirus, resulting in 4,632 reported deaths.01:50 South Korea reported eight new coronavirus cases on Saturday, a single-digit daily increase for the first time in two months. The new cases take the country's total tally to 10,661 cases and 234 deaths. South Korea has been widely praised for its handling of the outbreak. The country even held parliamentary elections this week, where millions turned out to vote, wearing gloves and masks. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3aDU6 01:15 The daily death toll in the US state of New York, the epicenter of the US outbreak, has hit its lowest point in over two weeks. On Saturday, the daily increase dropped below 550 for the first time since April 1. Hospitalizations also continued to decline. Governor Andrew Cuomo, however, warned that the crisis isn't over and that shutdown measures will remain in place. Hospitals are still admitting nearly 2,000 new coronavirus patients a day and nursing homes are a "feeding frenzy" for the virus, he said. Almost 13,000 New Yorkers have died since the state's first COVID-19 case was reported on March 1. These figures do not include over 4,000 New York City deaths that have been listed on death certificates but not verified with a lab test. Amid the lockdown measures, the state announced it is making it easier for New Yorkers to get married via web video. As most marriage bureaus are currently closed due to the outbreak, Cuomo said he is waiving a provision that requires couples to apply for marriage licenses in person. The state is also making it possible for town and city clerks to conduct weddings by video. "There is now no excuse when the question comes up for marriage. No excuse. You can do it by Zoom. Yes or no,'' the governor said. The question of online marriages had come up at a press briefing with New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio earlier this week, with reporters speculating that increased layoffs due to the outbreak could result in couples seeking to wed in order to share health insurance benefits. The total coronavirus death toll in the US hit 38,664 on Saturday, up 1,891 from the day before, according to the John Hopkins Institute. The country has recorded 732,197 cases of COVID-19 since the outbreak began. 01:00 US President Donald Trump warned China that it could face consequences if it was "knowingly responsible" for the coronavirus outbreak. "If it was a mistake, a mistake is a mistake," Trump said at his daily briefing. "But if they were knowingly responsible, yeah, then there should be consequences," he said. Asked whether the virus was a "mistake that got out of control, or was it done deliberately", Trump said China was "embarrassed." The Trump administration has said it is not ruling out the possibility that the novel coronavirus was spread accidentally, while laboratories were studying bats in Wuhan. "They said they're doing an investigation," the president said. "So, let's see what happens with their investigation. But we're doing investigations also." Trump first praised China's response to the coronavirus outbreak then changed his view Read more: Did coronavirus really originate in a Chinese laboratory? 00:05 The coronavirus death toll in Europe surged past 100,000 on Saturday. Accounting for 100,510 deaths — nearly two-thirds of the 157,163 global fatalities, according to a tally by the AFP news agency. Europe has suffered a greater death toll than any other continent. Nearly a quarter of worldwide fatalities have been reported in the United States, where some 38,000 people have died, according to the John Hopkins Institute. Over 4.5 billion people — more than half of humanity — remain at home as part of voluntary or enforced efforts to curb the spread of the coronavirus through social distancing. Japan, Mexico, Spain, France, and the UK are among the countries that have expanded such measures or extended the length of their national lockdowns. In the US, President Donald Trump has announced that lockdown measures will be partially eased in the states of Texas and Vermont starting on Monday. Isolated protests against lockdown measures have taken place around the US. Catch up on Saturday's coronavirus news here: Some US states to reopen soon In reporting on the coronavirus pandemic, unless otherwise specified, DW uses figures provided by the Johns Hopkins University (JHU) Coronavirus Resource Center in the United States. JHU updates figures in real time, collating data from world health organizations, state and national governments and other public official sources, all of whom have their own systems for compiling information. Germany's national statistics are compiled by its public health agency, the Robert Koch Institute (RKI). These figures depend on data transmission from state and local levels and are updated around once a day, which can lead to deviation from JHU. DW sends out a daily selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here. kp/sms (AP, Reuters, AFP, dpa)