European shares rise as airlines, Deutsche Bank surge Updates in Universal Coordinated Time (UTC/GMT) 12:48 Pakistani cleric Maulana Tariq Jameel has been widely condemned for comments he made last week about the role of women during the pandemic. The cleric suggested the pandemic was caused partly by the "immodesty" of women. Jameel appeared on a telethon hosted by Prime Minister Imran Khan and said: "Who has demolished modesty in my country? Who is making the nation's daughters dance? Who is shortening their dresses? Who should be held responsible?" The comments prompted a backlash among leading activists, as well as Khan’s Human Rights Minister Shireen Mazari, who said it was "simply absurd" for someone to suggest the pandemic was the result of women’s clothes. "This simply reflects either ignorance about pandemics or a misogynist mindset. Absolutely unacceptable," she added. The Human Rights Commission of Pakistan also warned that the remarks "only compounds the misogyny entrenched in society." Jameel is one of the country's leading preachers. His sermons are often broadcast on Pakistan's state-run and private TV stations during Ramadan, while his YouTube channel has 3.5 million subscribers. He is a senior member of the Tablighi Jamaat missionary group, which has been criticized for holding a meeting on March 10 with almost 100,000 people in attendance. Pakistan reported its first case on February 26. 11:30 Austria's Chancellor Sebastian Kurz has said he will make sure the country’s key workers pay fewer taxes and that multinationals should pay more, in a bid to jumpstart the economy as the country eases its coronavirus lockdown measures. "Whether care workers, security forces, supermarket employees or many others — whoever works hard should in future have more in their pocket. That is a question of social justice but also in times like these it is also necessary to stimulate domestic consumption," Kurz said in a televised address on the 75th anniversary of Austria’s Second Republic. The chancellor said that €14 billion euros ($15 billion) of the €38 billion promised by his government — a coalition between Kurz’s conservatives and the left-wing Greens — had already been paid out. He hinted that more was to come. Along with cutting taxes for low and middle incomes, he said he would seek a greater tax contribution from multinationals. "At the national and European level, we will fight against all forms of tax evasion and against unfair tax practices of large companies, because everyone should pay their fair share, particularly in times like these," Kurz added. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3bSX0 11:00 Restrictions implemented to curb the spread of coronavirus could spark a "human rights disaster," as some countries use the measures for more nefarious purposes, warned United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet. Bachelet called on countries to refrain from violating fundamental rights "under the guise of exceptional or emergency measures." "Emergency powers should not be a weapon governments can wield to quash dissent, control the population, and even perpetuate their time in power," she said in a statement. "They should be used to cope effectively with the pandemic — nothing more, nothing less." The UN rights chief cited reports of police brutality, "unsafe" mass arrests and efforts to quash free speech. "Such violations have often been committed against people belonging to the poorest and most vulnerable segments of the population," she said. "Shooting, detaining, or abusing someone for breaking a curfew because they are desperately searching for food is clearly an unacceptable and unlawful response … So is making it difficult or dangerous for a woman to get to hospital to give birth," said Bachelet. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3bOOs 10:20 Several European countries are taking their first steps to ease coronavirus-related restrictions. While Spain allowed children to go outside for the first time in six weeks on Sunday, Germany allowed small shops to reopen last week, and Italy announced that some businesses could reopen next month. However, some of the steps to loosen restrictions across Europe have been met with criticism that states are taking too long to ease measures. In Italy, the Catholic Church complained that the hard-hit country’s exit plan still included a ban on religious services, while parents slammed plans to keep schools shut until September. "Italian bishops cannot accept a limitation of the freedom of religion," the Italian Bishops' Conference said in a statement. The manufacturing and construction sectors are among those allowed to restart next week, while shops and museums should reopen on May 18, and bars, restaurants and hair salons can reopen on June 1. Additionally, people will be allowed to take part in more outdoor exercise and visit relatives from May 4, provided that they wear face masks. Gastronomes have set up empty chairs in central locations in Germany, such as here in Düsseldorf, to draw attention to their situation in the coronavirus crisis. "Without direct financial aid, most of our businesses will not survive," says Guido Zöllick, President of the German Hotel and Restaurant Association. "Suppliers and partners are also increasingly being drawn deeper into economic crisis." Austria's Chancellor Sebastian Kurz is confident that the border between Austria and Germany will soon be opened again for tourists. Both countries are on the right track in containing the spread of the coronavirus, Kurz told ARD television on Wednesday (April 22). This is the precondition for a revival of tourism. He did not name an exact date for the opening of borders. "A normal holiday season with crowded beach bars and busy mountain huts will not be possible this summer. That would be unacceptable," German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said on Tuesday (April 21). However, he did not rule out the possibility that borders for tourists could be reopened before the summer and that holiday travel with certain restrictions might be possible. The Oktoberfest has been cancelled this year due to the coronavirus pandemic. Bavaria's premier Markus Söder and Munich's mayor Dieter Reiter announced the decision on Tuesday (April 21). "It pains us, and it is a great pity", said Söder. But in times of the coronavirus, the danger of infection at the folk festival, which attracts about six million visitors annually, would just be too great. The Prime Minister of Schleswig-Holstein, Daniel Günther, hopes that tourism on the North and Baltic Seas will be revived in the summer. Despite the coronavirus crisis, he "definitely did not write off the summer tourism business," he said on April 19. While they are now proscribed, stays in secondary residences, holiday homes and finally hotels could be made possible again in three steps. The government resolutions (April 15th) stipulate that people in Germany should continue to refrain from making private trips. The worldwide travel warning is to be upheld. Accommodation offers are only available for necessary and explicitly non-touristic purposes. Restaurants will also remain closed. Tourism is one of the industries that has been hit hardest in the coronavirus crisis. The entry ban imposed by the USA on foreign nationals from Europe will remain in place for the time being. Italy and Spain are still struggling with the coronavirus crisis and France has just extended measures to contain infections by the virus, US President Donald Trump said on Monday (April 13). The entry ban will remain in force until the countries show signs of improvement, Trump said. Hotels, cafes and souvenir shops are closed. It is unusually empty outside the Royal Palace in Palma (picture). The Easter season on the Spanish holiday island of Mallorca has been cancelled. The Majorcan hotel association now fears that due to the uncertain situation in the main markets of Germany and Great Britain, some hotels will remain closed even during the peak season. By Sunday (April, 5) 205,000 travelers had been brought back to Germany, according to the federal government. Airplanes from Peru and Colombia were the most recent to take off. More than 40,000 Germans however are still stranded abroad. Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said on Twitter. "We will continue our efforts to find solutions for the travelers who have not yet been able to return." Thousands of foreigners stranded in New Zealand because of the coronavirus crisis will be able to leave the Pacific state from Friday (April 3). On Thursday, the New Zealand government announced that it would allow the "safe and orderly departure of tens of thousands" of stranded people. Earlier it had stopped return flights by foreign governments. A light installation on the Matterhorn in Switzerland is giving a sign of solidarity and hope in the fight against the corona virus. Encouraging messages are also being projected on to many other tourist landmarks around the world. "Stay safe", "Stay at home" could be see on Monday evening on the Great Pyramid in Giza near the Egyptian capital Cairo. The repatriation process for Germans stranded abroad is ongoing. Until now, main destinations such as Egypt or Morocco have been addressed. "It will be more difficult with countries that only have small groups of scattered adventure vacationers," said the crisis manager of the German Foreign Office. Tourists in the Pacific Islands must first be rounded up in New Zealand and then flown out. After long delays Thailand closed its borders on Thursday (March 26). The authorities had delayed the decision for a long time to safeguard the tourism sector. Now tens of thousands of tourists are stuck in the Southeast Asian tourist country. The German government has so far not organized a repatriation for German tourists, as Thailand is not considered a risk region. The German foreign ministry announced on Wednesday (March 25) that, together with tour operators, it had brought back more than 150,000 Germans from abroad. Tour operator TUI added that almost 95 percent of the tourists who were stranded because of the coronavirus pandemic are now back in Germany. They were mainly flown out from Egypt, Spain, Portugal and the Cape Verde Islands. German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas has said that the warning against traveling abroad will remain in effect until the end of April. "This includes the Easter holidays," he said on Twitter. "Stay at home! Protect yourself and your fellow human beings," he appealed to the population. Many tour operators have also extended their travel ban until the end of April. The EU Commission is supporting the return to Europe of tens of thousands of long-distance travellers. It intends to cover a large part of the costs, since most of the flight connections have been cancelled. "We are here to help them return," Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said in a video message. African countries have also ordered numerous measures to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. South Africa, for example, has banned access to the country for people coming from risk areas. Nigeria is monitoring the temperature of travelers at airports, ports and borders. Cameroon has closed its borders indefinitely. The Australian government has imposed an indefinite ban on all foreign travel by its citizens. Prime Minister Scott Morrison also called on all Australians who are abroad to return home. A 14-day compulsory quarantine for all people entering the country has already been in place for some time. Here, too, it has become quiet in the cities. The coronavirus crisis is impacting travelers and the tourism industry with full force. Several tour operators, including TUI, has cancelled trips, and some airlines are shutting down. Germany's federal and state governments decided that overnight stays should only be used for "necessary and explicitly not for touristic purposes". Germans are to "no longer take holiday trips at home and abroad". The EU has closed its entire external borders for 30 days as from Tuesday (March 17, 2020). "All travel between non-European countries and the European Union will be suspended for 30 days," French President Macron said in a television address on Monday (March 16,2020) evening. The Schengen Area, which includes several non-EU countries, has also closed its external borders. More and more countries are sealing their borders, and many flights are cancelled. With special flights Lufthansa and its subsidiary Eurowings want to bring up to 6,500 stranded holidaymakers from the Caribbean, the Canary Islands and on Mallorca back to Germany. In Morocco, the German government is assisting German tourists who are stranded there due to their return flights being cancelled. On Monday morning (March 16, 2020), Germany introduced entry controls at the borders with the five neighboring countries: France, Denmark, Luxembourg, Austria and Switzerland. Border crossings will be reduced to what is strictly necessary. Goods can continue to pass through, including commuters, but not travelers without good reason. The duration of the measures remains open. Whether Spiekeroog, Sylt or Rügen: Vacation on the northern German islands in the North and Baltic Sea is no longer possible as of March 16, 2020. Those who had already moved into their accommodation have been asked to return home. The health systems of the islands are not equipped to deal with large numbers of infected people. Regulations are to follow for mainland tourism. Disneyland Paris and Disney World Florida have closed until the end of the month. Disney Cruise Line have also suspended all new departure through the same period. The company said the decision was made "with great caution" to protect guests and employees. The company said the parks in Tokyo, Hong Kong and Shanghai, which had already been closed, will also remain shut. All ski areas in the Austrian provinces of Salzburg and Tyrol are ending the winter season early. Cable car operation will be discontinued as of Sunday (March 15, 2020). Hotels and accommodations will be closed from Monday. The provincial governments said that this should slow down the spread of the virus in the Alpine country. The two provinces account for most leading Austrian ski areas. Due to the spread of the coronavirus, the USA is imposing a general 30-day travel ban on people from Europe. The entry ban comes into force on Friday (March 13, 2020) at midnight (local time). It does not apply to US citizens residing in Europe who have tested negative for the pathogen. India has declared all tourist visas invalid for 1 month because of the corona virus. Only travelers who are already in the country are allowed to stay, the Indian Ministry of Health announced on Wednesday (March 11, 2020). The entry ban is to last until April 15 for the time being. Climbing Mount Everest via the north side has been forbidden by Chinese authorities. The necessary permits for expeditions to the world's highest mountain were withdrawn on Thursday (March 12, 2020). In order to reduce the spread, the border into neighboring Austria can only be crossed from Italy with a medical certificate. Slovenia has closed its border, and Albania has banned Italian air and ferry traffic. Many airlines have cancelled flights to Italy until at least 3 April. Germany, the UK, and Ireland tightened travel recommendations and called on their citizens to leave. The Costa Crociere shipping company is cancelling all cruises in the Mediterranean for the time being. The cruises will be suspended until April 3, the Italian company announced on Tuesday (March 10). The measure affects thousands of passengers. Ships still operating in the Mediterranean will only call at Italian ports to let passengers disembark. The dome and roof terrace of the Reichstag parliament building in Berlin have been closed to visitors since Tuesday (March 10, 2020) until further notice to prevent the possible spread of the coronavirus. The walkable dome and the roof terrace are visited by more than 2 million people every year, according to the Bundestag. All ski facilities in Italy have been closed since Tuesday (March 10, 2020) due to the corona crisis. Prior to this, hoteliers and cable car operators in the South Tyrol region (photo) had already agreed to close their facilities. South Tyrol is particularly popular with winter sports tourists from Germany and Eastern Europe. The closure is effective until at least April 3. The Czech Republic (picture) and Poland are carrying out checks at the border with Germany to protect against the spread of the coronavirus. Since Monday (March 9), travelers have faced random temperature checks. The German government has warned against travelling to risk areas. And air passengers from China, Japan, South Korea, Iran and Italy will have to expect controls when entering Germany. On March 8 the Italian government issued an entry and exit ban for the more than 15 million inhabitants of the northern Italian regions, which include the key business center Milan and the tourist magnet of Venice (photo). Cultural, sporting and religious events are also banned for visitors. Museums, cinemas and theaters remain closed nationwide. Repeatedly cruise ships have to be quarantined or prevented from docking. After cancellations in Thailand and Malaysia, the Costa Fortuna (photo) with 2,000 passengers, including 64 Italians, has been allowed to enter the port of Singapore. In Oakland, California, 2,000 passengers and 1,100 crew members of the Grand Princess are quarantined because 19 of them have tested positive for COVID-19. Sights in Asia are particularly affected by travel restrictions for Chinese tourists. Hotspots such as the Senso-ji temple (picture) in Tokyo and the temple complexes of Angkor Wat in Cambodia are reporting a sharp drop in visitors. On March 9, the Ministry of Tourism in Thailand reported a 44% drop for February. Tourism accounts for 11% of the gross domestic product. Author: Andreas Kirchhoff, Susan Bonney-Cox  Meanwhile in Germany, top politicians have called for a more swift end to coronavirus-related restrictions, and have slammed Chancellor Angela Merkel's cautious approach. In an interview with Berlin daily Der Tagesspiegel on Sunday, Bundestag President Wolfgang Schäuble said that extending the restrictions would impinge on citizens' fundamental rights. "When I hear that protecting lives should come above everything else, I don't think that is absolutely true," he said. Armin Laschet, the state premier of North-Rhine Westphalia, Germany’s most populous state, told public broadcaster ARD that the discussion over how to lift lockdown measures was "appropriate," adding that the negative effects of the lockdown must be weighed against the effects of the pandemic itself. Germany has 157,770 confirmed cases of coronavirus, with a death toll of 5,976. 10:00 Spain reported 331 new deaths on Monday, bringing the total number of fatalities in the hard-hit country up to 23,521. The new figure marks an increase from the previous day’s death toll of 288 – Spain’s lowest number of daily fatalities since March 20. The total number of confirmed cases also rose to 209,465, up from 207,634 the day before. Spain, which has the third-highest number of deaths, behind Italy and the United States, has started taking measures to ease its rigid lockdown which has been in place since March 14. Yesterday, children under 14 were allowed to go outside for the first time since the start of the lockdown, while the government is expected to allow adults to go outside for non-essential purposes from next weekend. 09:45 A rise in German stocks led a hike in European shares, as the market responded optimistically to signs that many countries may be easing their coronavirus lockdowns. Shares of airliner Lufthansa saw a jump of 6.8%, after Germany's transport minister said he supported helping the firm.  Meanwhile, Air France KLM also surged by 4.3%, following a 7-billion euros ($7.6 billion) government aid package. Euro zone banks also saw a boost in the market, following news that Deutsche Bank first-quarter earnings beat expectations. Its shares jumped by 10.8%. After a month of life under lockdown, Germans are regaining a few freedoms. But they are doing so in patchwork fashion. The 16 individual states are responsible for lifting their lockdowns. The biggest change is that all shops under 800 square meters (8,610 square feet) are allowed to open their doors from April 20. But shoppers in some states — such as Berlin — will have to wait a little longer. Germany’s most populous state, North Rhine-Westphalia (NRW), was one of the states to allow stores to open right away. Shoppers in Bonn appeared to take full advantage. NRW has also gone a baby-step further than other states, allowing large stores specializing in maternity products to open up. Cyclists looking for a new purchase were already lining up outside a bike shop in Dinslaken, NRW, after it reopened on Monday. Bike stores, bookstores and car dealerships throughout Germany are allowed to welcome customers again, no matter the shops' size. Store owners were just as delighted to welcome back customers, with some launching spring sales to try and tempt a few more inside. A lifestyle store in Ludwigsburg, Saxony-Anhalt, put up a banner reading, "We are back! Nice to see you again." Pupils are slowly being allowed back in through school gates. The states of Berlin, Brandenburg and Saxony are permitting older students to return on Monday for classes to prepare them for their school-leaving exams, as well as the tests themselves. Most areas of Germany are targeting May 4 as the day to open schools more widely, but Bavaria, one of the hardest hit states, will wait until May 11. Animals have had a month off as zoos and safari parks were closed by Germany's lockdown. But some states are ready to allow visitors to return. Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, Brandenburg and Rhineland-Palatinate are all permitting zoos to open to some extent. In these and other states people will be able to visit museums again. Some people have been wearing masks out of choice, but in certain regions they will become a more common sight. There is no nationwide requirement to wear them, but some states are introducing one. From April people using busses and trains and going into shops in Saxony will need something to cover their noses and mouths. Bavaria and Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania will follow with similar measures. What won't change are social distancing guidelines. No matter where they are, Germans are still being encouraged to keep 1.5 meters (4.9 feet) away from people they don't live with. Stores that are reopening are marking this distance in various ways to help customers keep clear of one another. Author: Alex Matthews  The ailing airline Condor is set to receive €550 million ($597 million) in loans from the German government and the state of Hesse to help keep it afloat amid the coronavirus pandemic. The support consists of a €294 million "corona aid" loan, and €256 million to refinance an earlier government bridging loan, Condor said in a statement. "The company was operationally healthy and profitable in normal times and has good prospects for the future," Economy Minister Peter Altmaier said in a statement. Germany's DAX index was also boosted by drugs and pesticides company Bayer, which gained 3.1% after its first-quarter adjusted core earnings beat market estimates. Investors were optimistic about European-wide plans to restart some economic activity. Italy, among the worst-hit countries by the virus, was set to allow factories and building sites to reopen from May 4, while carmaker Volkswagen said it had resumed work at its biggest factory in Wolfsburg, Germany. 09:15 UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson told Britons that the first phase of the country’s coronavirus outbreak was coming to an end, in his first public appearance after recovering from a case of coronavirus which saw him placed in intensive care earlier this month. "Everyday I know that this virus brings new sadness and mourning to households across the land and it is still true that this is the biggest single challenge this country has faced since the war," said Johnson. The United Kingdom was nearing "the end of the first phase of this conflict," he added. "We must also recognize the risk of a second spike, the risk of losing control of that virus and letting the reproduction rate go back over one because that would mean not only a new wave of death and disease but also an economic disaster," he said. Johnson also thanked citizens for abiding by the lockdown measures, and said the government would begin outlining plans to ease restrictions in the coming days. "If you can keep going the way you have, if you can help protect the NHS [National Health Service], then I have no doubt we will together beat this," he said. Once the first phase is over, he said, that "will be the time to refine restrictions and fire up the engines of the economy." "We simply cannot spell out now how fast or slow or even when those changes will be made, though clearly the government will be saying much more about this in the coming days," he added. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3bKsi 08:35 Hong Kong researchers say they have developed an antiviral coating which could provide 90 days of "significant" protection against bacteria and viruses, including the coronavirus. Scientists at Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (HKUST) say that the coating, called MAP-1, can be sprayed on surfaces that are frequently used by the public, including elevator buttons and handrails. "These places are frequently touched, and, at the same time, serve as a very effective medium for transmission of diseases," HKUST Adjunct Professor Joseph Kwan told Reuters. The coating that forms after spraying has millions of nano-capsules containing disinfectants, which Kwan says are able to kill bacteria, viruses and spores even after the coating has dried. Researchers say that MAP-1 is non-toxic and safe for the skin and the environment. The coating has also already been adopted by shopping malls, schools and sports training facilities in the city. MAP-1 was approved for official and mass consumer use in February, and will be sold in Hong Kong shops from next month. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3bSCD 07:55 Australian Foreign Minister Marisa Payne has warned China against attempts at "economic coercion" as Australia calls for a probe into the coronavirus outbreak, which China opposes. Australia is lobbying world leaders and all members of the World Health Organization (WHO) to initiate an independent review into the origins and spread of Covid-19  a proposal which China has openly rebuffed. Chinese ambassador to Australia Cheng Kingye said that the "Chinese public" could avoid Australian products and universities if the investigation moves forward. "Maybe the ordinary people will say ‘Why should we drink Australian wine? Eat Australian beef?’," Cheng told The Australian Financial Review, adding that tourists may have "second thoughts" about visiting Australia. "The parents of the students would also think … whether this is the best place to send their kids," he said. 07:20 In the same interview in which he spoke about Lufthansa, the German Economy Minister Peter Altmaier also urged caution in the effort to ease contact restrictions. "I recommend that we proceed very, very carefully so that in the end we don’t have to take back the new relaxations to the rules," he said, adding that the heads of each state are expected to come together to discuss Germany’s exit plan. "I hope that we can then agree on a common roadmap with a view to different approaches [for each state]," he said. Altmaier added that he does not expect to see a speedy return to everyday life as before the coronavirus pandemic. "Nobody questions that we’ll have to suffer the contact restrictions for a while longer," he said. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3bIbY 06:20 Germany will decide on state aid for Lufthansa once the airline applies for aid and all of the facts are on the table, German Economy Minister Peter Altmaier told public broadcaster Deutschlandfunk. "We want large and important companies that play a role in the world market to remain competitive after the crisis," Altmaier said, adding that companies receiving state aid must suspend their dividends and show restraint on management bonuses. Lufthansa’s CEO Carsten Spohr said this month that the flag carrier would seek state aid in Germany, Austria, Switzerland and Belgium, citing losses at a rate of €1 million ($1.1 million). The German government is said to be considering a rescue package worth between €9 billion and €10 billion, according to sources close to the matter. There is disagreement, however, about what form such aid should take and about the degree to which the government should nationalize the airline. 05:50 More than one million people in Australia have downloaded a new government smartphone application designed to aid coronavirus contact tracing efforts, just a day after its release. The "COVIDSafe" app, which works by using smartphones’ Bluetooth functions to detect other nearby users, has been touted as a step to easing social distancing measures and reopening restaurants, bars and schools. Meanwhile, questions over privacy rights have arisen in Europe, where the idea of using a tracking application is also under consideration. Germany recently announced that it will back a decentralized piece of software supported by US tech giants Apple and Google. Under the proposed application, the data will be stored on individual users’ phones instead of under a centralized database. An initial proposal to promote an app with a centralized database came under heavy scrutiny, with critics saying such a program would be invasive. Hard-hit Italy is also considering a voluntary tracking app, with over a hundred formal proposals currently under consideration. 04:55 Despite social distancing conventions in place across the world, spectators packed into a Turkmenistan stadium to celebrate the country’s national horse day. Footage broadcast by state television on Sunday showed President Gurbanguly Berdymukhamedov presiding over races to mark the Turkmen Horse Day, a celebration of the Akhal-Teke horse, a central symbol of state propaganda. The Akhal-Teke horse is honored each year as a "loyal partner throughout the centuries" which "came down from Heaven," according to Turkmenistan’s tourism website. While Berdymukhamedov watched the proceedings from a sealed box, ordinary spectators filled the stadium and waved Turkmen flags. Unlike in previous years, journalists were not invited to Sunday’s events. Earlier this month, the country flouted official recommendations by organizing a series of mass exercise events, including a mass bicycling trip of 3,500 people, to mark World Health Day. Turkmenistan is one of the few countries in the world not to record a single case of COVID-19. 04:05 Germany’s confirmed number of coronavirus cases rose by 1,018 to 155,193, while the death toll rose by 110 to 5,750, according to the Robert Koch Institute. Both of those figures mark a decrease from the day prior, which saw 1,737 new infections and 140 coronavirus-related deaths. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3bRdC 03:05 French police seized 140,000 face masks destined for the European black market. Police sources said two suspects were arrested unloading boxes filled with the masks on the outskirts of Paris. One of the suspects claimed to be a business owner who was preparing to sell the masks to construction workers for a significant profit. The masks were purchased in the Netherlands, according to the suspect. In March, France banned the resale of protective masks in order to ensure frontline healthcare workers had the necessary gear to deal with the novel coronavirus. French authorities have yet to ease the ban. 03:01 Here's a round-up of the latest developments in the Americas: Canada: Authorities have warned against the use of anti-malarial drugs chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine to treat coronavirus patients, highlighting the serious side effects of using the drugs. The country has reported 47,147 confirmed infections with 2,663 deaths. US: The unemployment rate in the US may be pushed to 16% or higher this month, as a result of the economy shuttering over coronavirus lockdowns, according to White House economic adviser Kevin Hassett. Before the crisis hit, the country’s unemployment rate was touching a 50-year low of 3.5%. With 1,330 more deaths in the past 24 hours, the US has an overall death toll of 54,841. The country has reported 965,435 confirmed coronavirus cases, the most of any country. Mexico: The government has cleared out migrant centers across the country to control the spread of the pandemic. Most occupants have been sent back to their countries of origin, mostly in Central America. Mexico has reported 14,677 coronavirus cases and 1,351 deaths. El Salvador: President Nayib Bukele has authorized police and military to use  "lethal force" against gang members to control instances of violence as the country attempts to control the spread of the virus. El Salvador currently has under 300 coronavirus cases with eight deaths. Panama: The country reported 241 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of infections to 5,779. Panama’s death toll currently stands at 165. Brazil: With massive shortages in testing and chances of the country’s health infrastructure being overwhelmed, Brazil is fast becoming a virus hotspot. In the city of Manaus, authorities are being forced to dig mass graves to bury close to 100 corpses a day. Brazil has reported 63,100 confirmed coronavirus cases and 4,286 deaths. Peru: Peruvian President Martin Vizcarra has called out citizens for gathering in large numbers to buy beer during the coronavirus crisis. Peru has reported 27, 517 confirmed cases with 728 deaths. Ecuador: President Lenin Moreno says the country will use a color-coded system to designate an area's risk level as it gradually lifts its coronavirus lockdown. Starting on May 4, regions, "depending on their health indicators," will be identified according to traffic-light colors — red, yellow and green. Some red areas will remain on lockdown, while yellow and green regions will partially lift restrictions on transport, working, and free movement. Colombia: The country is preparing to relax its quarantine requirements as people return to the construction and manufacturing sectors and outdoor physical activities are allowed starting Monday. Colombia began compulsory preventive isolation on March 25 and is expected to continue till May 11. The country has reported 5,379 cases of the virus with 244 deaths. 01:19 Chinese authorities reported three new cases of the novel coronavirus, marking a major drop from 11 the day before. The Chinese Health Ministry said there were no new deaths, marking nearly two weeks without any coronavirus-related fatalities. Although the coronavirus pandemic began in the Chinese city of Wuhan, Chinese authorities have managed to contain the deadly pathogen by enacting heavy restrictions on public life, including citywide lockdowns. Critics, however, have accused the Chinese government of obfuscating the origins of the virus and not providing sufficient transparency on how it managed to drastically reduce the rate of transmission. 00:35 Microsoft founder and billionaire philanthropist Bill Gates told the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung newspaper that German Chancellor Angela Merkel was "a leader and a clear voice" for her response to the novel coronavirus outbreak in Germany. Gates, an American citizen, criticized the US government for failing to coordinate nationwide public health measures early on, saying: "Testing did not have the necessary priority." In contrast, Germany scaled up nationwide testing soon after the major outbreak in North Rhine-Westphalia. The US is the hardest hit country in the world with more than 54,800 deaths and nearly 1 million infections. The Trump administration has come under fire for playing down the severity of the pandemic early on. 00:30 Italian bishops called on the government to ease restrictions on public masses, saying the faithful must have access to the sacraments. "[Bishops] cannot accept seeing the exercises of freedom of worship be compromised," said a statement issued shortly after Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte outlined plans to ease lockdown restrictions in May. The Episcopal Conference of Italy, the official assembly of Catholic bishops in the Mediterranean country, has pressured the government to allow mass. Since Italy enacted a nationwide lockdown last month, churches have been forced to forgo public ceremonies and gatherings. 00:09 As early as this week, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson could announce plans to ease restrictions aimed at curbing the novel coronavirus pandemic, according to British daily The Telegraph. According to the report, Johnson is considering "modifying" lockdown measures instead of lifting them in order to avert a second wave of transmissions. Johnson is heading back to work after spending week recovering from COVID-19, the disease caused by the novel coronavirus. Shortly after he received confirmation of infection, he was admitted to intensive care due his condition deteriorating. He has since recovered. The United Kingdom has one of the highest death tolls in the world, with more than 20,000 fatalities caused by the pathogen. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3bNKM 00:01 German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas told Munich-based newspaper Süddeutsche Zeitung that Europeans should moderate their expectations for Germany's presidency of the European Council later this year. He said the expectations placed on the German government were "enormous." Earlier this month, Maas had pledged an ambitious program for Germany's presidency, most notably concerning the post-pandemic recovery of Europe. He said it would amount to a "coronavirus presidency." However, less than two weeks later, he appears to be walking back that commitment. Instead, he said it is necessary to "find a reasonable balance between ambitious aspirations and realistic goals." Germany is viewed as a key political leader in Europe given its instrumental role in developing the EU into what it is today as well as advancing the eurozone project as the bloc's powerhouse economy. Some observers believe Germany's presidency could be Berlin's opportunity to lead the post-pandemic recovery and steer the future of the European project. 00:00 Welcome to Monday's live updates article on the coronavirus pandemic. For Sunday's updates see here: Coronavirus latest: Italy sees fewest daily deaths in 6 weeks In reporting on the coronavirus pandemic, unless otherwise specified, DW uses figures provided by the Johns Hopkins University (JHU) Coronavirus Resource Center in the United States. JHU updates figures in real-time, collating data from world health organizations, state and national governments and other public official sources, all of whom have their own systems for compiling information. Germany's national statistics are compiled by its public health agency, the Robert Koch Institute (RKI). These figures depend on data transmission from state and local levels and are updated around once a day, which can lead to deviation from JHU. ls/aw (Reuters, AFP, AP, dpa) Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.