The Canadian military helicopter was reported missing about 50 nautical miles (90 kilometers) off the Greek island Kefalonia on Wednesday, initially by the Greek air force. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau later confirmed the incident and said he had spoken with his Defense Minister Harjit Singh. "Updates will be provided as soon as possible," Trudeau added, saying that search and rescue efforts were underway. The Canadian military said it had lost contact with the helicopter, a CH-148 Cyclone, and that rescue efforts were underway. Read more: Coronavirus forcing countries to reevaluate security paradigms It had taken off from the Canadian frigate HMCS Fredericton, which was operating as part of a NATO surveillance force in the area. Italian, Greek and Turkish frigates were also taking part in the patrol. Canada's Cyclone helicopters typically carry a crew of four with space for several passengers. They are usually based on naval vessels. A spokesperson for NATO's strategic military command Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers Europe (SHAPE) confirmed there had been "an incident involving a helicopter from a ship under NATO command." "There is currently a search and rescue operation being conducted and national notifications taking place," the spokesperson said. An unnamed Greek military source told news agency AFP that the country's naval and air forces were ready to assist in a rescue operation "if Italy requests it." The Canadian military only started using the Cyclone helicopters, manufactured by Sikorsky, on missions in late 2018 following more than 10 years of delays, developmental challenges and cost overruns. Read more: Coronavirus crisis hampering Mediterranean migrant rescues Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3XxyR se/dr (AFP, AP, dpa) Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.