All updates in Coordinated Universal Time (UTC/GMT) 13:50 Politico is reporting that the European Conservatives and Reformists group in the European Parliament has fired all its British staffers and plans to replace them with Polish nationals. It reported that British staff were fired without prior notice after MEPs voted in favour of the Withdrawal Agreement. 13:25 Pro-EU group Led By Donkeys earlier projected a message of unity on the white cliffs of Dover alongside a giant EU flag. 13:10 Speaking on tariffs, Nicole Sykes, the head of EU Negotiations for the Confederation of British Industry, which represents 190,000 businesses, told DW Business's Monika Jones: "It does seem that we are going to have to talk about areas where there is disagreement first, these things about financial services and fishing, get some of those difficult issues done," said Sykes. Sykes added that businesses in the UK are "pragmatic" and don't want to see tariffs on either side. "We know that there wont be frictionless trade anymore," said Sykes. "We know there are going to be frictions. So how do we manage the costs, manage the complexities. Huge amount of details to deal with.  But we do think that those will be kicking off soon. We're expecting announcements next week to lay out the expectations from both sides." 12:26 Are you a Brit wondering about job opportunities in the EU? Or vice versa? Here's what will (and what won't) change for you. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3X5Zl 12:18 Scotland's First Minister Nicola Sturgeon is pushing for another referendum on Scottish independence, though she needs the permission of the national government to call one. Sturgeon on Friday said her government may test the legal boundaries of calling a non-binding vote on independence. "Should the UK government continue to deny Scotland's right to choose, we may reach the point where it is necessary for this issue to be tested," she said. "I am not ruling that out." Sturgeon said Brexit will be "a moment of real and profound sadness for many of us across the UK." "And here in Scotland, given that it is happening against the will of the vast majority of us, that sadness will be tinged with anger." The Scottish Parliament will not be taking down the EU flag on Friday night in a symbol of opposition to Brexit. Two government buildings will also be lit up in the blue and yellow of the EU flag. Scottish Brexit Secretary Mike Russell called on the EU to "leave a light on for Scotland" in preparation of its eventual return. Read more: Top EU lawmaker raises prospect of easy Scottish return to EU 12:05  New figures show that last year the eurozone economy recorded its worst year of growth since the 2013 debt crisis. Statistics agency Eurostat reports in its first estimate for the quarter that the eurozone grew just 0.1% from the previous three-month period. Over the entire 2019 the eurozone grew by just 1.2%. On Friday, London's FTSE 100 slipped 0.4% to mid-December leves. In Europe on Friday, bank stocks lifted European shares with the pan-European STOXX 600 rising 0.2%. For more on the economic impact of Brexit, DW Business have this: Read more: As Brexit day arrives, more economic pain for UK is inevitable 11:57 One British region that stands to suffer is Gibraltar. Chief Minister Fabian Picardo told Spain's TVE: "My government and most of the citizens of Gibraltar have deep regrets about what is about to happen." "For us, today is not a day to be celebrated." Gibraltar, on the southern tip of Spain, has been under British sovereignty since 1713. In the 2016 referendum, 96% of the region voted to remain. DW spoke to businesses on the ground about their future. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3X51F 11:49 With Brexit a done-deal, Germans are reflecting on the events that led to this moment. Among them is Franziska Brantner, a German lawmaker with the environmentalist Greens, who serves on the German parliament's European Union and Foreign Affairs Committees. "There was so much fake news, so many lies out there," she told DW's Austin Davis. "Probably we should have engaged more as European citizens in the referendum campaign. We should all have come and protested against the lies and put out our common vision for a better Europe." 11:22 Belgian Finance Minister Alexander De Croo has said he fears that Brexit could mean a power shift in favour of Germany and France. "One senses that this Franco-German axis is becoming much more important again. And frankly this is not a good thing for Belgium," the liberal vice-premier told Belgian channel LN24. He said France and Germany could now "decide any nonsense and the others must follow." 11:20 German Chancellor Angela Merkel's spokesman Steffen Seibert told a press conference that Brexit marks a "sea change" for the bloc. "We regret (Brexit), and we think the majority of the German population feel the same, but we respect the decision," Seibert, adding that Berlin hopes Britain will continue to be a "close partner and friend." "As the German government, we will continue to rely on Britain being a close partner, a friend," he said. He said the government hoped to continue the long-standing friendship on the basis of common democratic values based on the rule of law, which are also the values of Europe. He said European integration has brought peace and prosperity to Europe and has given the continent a strong voice in a world that is constantly changing. "We are determined to continue this European success story together with the other 26 European member states that are now our partners." 11:06 Here is a look at how Brexit will affect a small British village that voted in favor of the departure. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3X5Ck 10:56 DW's Brexit-weary commentator Rob Mudge writes in an opinion piece: "Brexit will leave Britain broken, a disunited kingdom. Geographically it has always been removed from continental Europe. That distance will become increasingly palpable politically, economically and socially." 10:53 Just like Brexit, so too can sport both divide and unite us. Read here for how Brexit will affect British sport. 10:42 The EU leaders stressed that if the UK wishes to have access to the European market, they must abide by its rules. Von Der Leyen said: "The next few months will be decisive for the future relationship. The EU will defend its interests in a determined manner. Only those who acknowledge the rules of the common market can benefit fully from it. As good friends we can negotiate fairly and toughly." Michel said: "The more the UK will diverge from the EU standards, the less the access to the single market they will have." Von der Leyen used the opportunity to set the scene for the future goals of the EU, tackling climate change, the digital revolution, managing migration and building strong partnerships across the globe. 10:24 European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, European Council President Charles Michel and the President of the European Parliament David Sassoli have delivered a message of unity and hope for the future of the EU. They said it was important for the EU to become more ambitious and deliver more for its citizens. They said it was a painful day for the EU, but they will not look back. "The sun will still rise tomorrow," said Von Der Leyen. She said it was an opportunity for the EU to lead on the world stage. "Strength does not lie in splendid isolation but in our unique union," she said. "We want to have the best possible relationship with the UK but it will never replicate the benefits of membership." 10:07 Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar has warned that a failure to reach a post-Brexit trade deal represents an 'existential threat' to Ireland. "I am confident we can get a good deal. The good news is that I don't think the two parties — the EU on one side and Britain on the other — are all that far apart. Further apart in rhetoric than substance," Varadkar said in a speech. "The UK would like to see a trade deal this year and it's possible. Particularly if the new trade deal is very similar to the current arrangements. It will be difficult though." "A failure to secure a trade deal would be a major threat, and an existential threat to our economy in 2021, so we do need that deal." 10:05 European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, European Council President Charles Michel and the President of the European Parliament David Sassoli are due to address the European Parliament in a session titled "The Future of Europe." It is scheduled to start now and you can watch it live here. See our 07:45 update for their joint statement in which they warned the UK could not expect unfettered access to the European market. 09:50 While European papers have been largely unified in their response (see our 09:09 update), British papers are sharply divided. Notorious Eurosceptic tabloid The Sun plastered its front page with "Our time has come" alongside an image of Big Ben. Right-wing populist tabloid The Daily Mail declares "A New Dawn for Britain." Pro-EU broadsheet The Guardian called it "the biggest gamble in a generation," saying the UK a "small island" with a picture of a crumbling sandcastle. Murdoch's center-right The Times had a cartoon of Boris Johnson leaping out the EU frying pan into the fire of Trump's orange hair. The Financial Times writes: "Britain bows out of EU with a mixture of optimism and regret." The right-wing Daily Telegraph writes: "This is not an end but a beginning," with remarks from Boris Johnson. Scotland's papers were notably less jubilant, given most of the region voted against Brexit. The Scotsman ran "Farewell, not goodbye", with farewell translated into 24 European languages. 09:30 Brexit Party MEPs have forgone tact and have marched out waving Union Jacks and accompanied by a bagpipes playing Cock o' the North. Ann Widdecombe, 73, led the jubilant procession, shouting "Goodbye! We won't be coming back," as she left. They plan to take the Eurostar train to London and join Farage's party described in our 08:45 update. 09:17 Planning to travel to the UK from Europe or vice versa? Here's what you need to know. 09:14 German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas posted a message on Twitter in which he mourns Brexit and calls for successful negotiations on their future relationship. "I am relieved that we were able to prevent 'no deal' chaos. But it is still a shame that Britain is leaving." "I hope that we can agree to a new partnership. Tomorrow, we open a new chapter," he wrote. German Economy Minister Peter Altmaier told ZDF public broadcaster: "We must look ahead and make sure that the European Union becomes stronger and not weaker." 09:11 British opposition leader Jeremy Corbyn said in a statement calling for an outward world view. "Britain’s place in the world will change. The question is what direction we now take." "We can work with other countries to develop trade, improve rights and protections, invest in our communities, tackle the threat of climate catastrophe, fight human rights abuses and promote peace. "We can build a truly internationalist, diverse and outward-looking Britain. Or we can turn inwards, and trade our principles, rights and standards to secure hastily arranged, one-sided, race-to-the-bottom trade deals with Donald Trump and others." 09:09 European newspapers have been varied in their responses, but overall they call for the EU to learn lessons from Britain's departure, and agree the EU is worse off without the UK. France's left-leaning daily Libération writes: "We simply love them, the British, even if they leave. But we also accuse them of having given in to this anti-European populist wave on which Boris Johnson has ridden." The paper partly blames the EU for Brexit, saying it failed in revitalizing the European dream. Le Parisien writes: "If the economy of 'independent' Britain collapses, it is proof that the European Union is a boon for all member states. But if the British economy flourishes, the eurosceptics will have a weighty argument to justify their divisive speeches. In either case, the shock waves should not be taken lightly." Spanish newspaper El País writes: "The UK has the right to take this wrong path it has chosen, even if support for it was low in the referendum. It is their decision. But Europeans now also have the right to make decisions in their own interests. It is even appropriate to put the interests of European citizens above everything else." Belgium's De Standaard: "The fact that the British must voluntarily leave this large free market and at the same time try to gain access to it again shows how absurd the whole Brexit idea is. And yet there is a feeling of unease and melancholy when the British leave, even in Europe, although they have always had the stamp of the troublemaker since they joined in 1973. The question is even whether one can still speak of a "European" Union when the country that, for centuries, shaped the identity and culture of the continent no longer wants to belong. Of course this influence will not suddenly disappear ... But an EU without Britain will become a poorer union in many areas." Sweden's liberal daily Dagens Nyheter writes: "Brexit is a hard blow for globalization and the European project. Close cooperation between the EU and the UK is the best way to limit the damage. Negotiations on the future relationship will be difficult and will require hard compromises - on both sides. But the stronger the resulting links will be, the greater the chance that Brexit will only be a one-off example of de-globalization - a temporary setback rather than an unfortunate turning point." Czech conservative newspaper Lidove noviny writes: "Britain's withdrawal from the EU has a more definitive character in its consequences than the disintegration of Czechoslovakia. When the Czech Republic and Slovakia later joined the European Union and the Schengen area it was as if the common state had been restored in practical matters like the free movement of workers and travellers. This is not the case for Britain and the EU. ... Without Britain there will be fewer complications in Brussels, but also less diversity and debate culture. Instead there will be more unity and herd mentality. It's a pity that the EU leaders have not yet understood this." Latvian national-conservative daily Neatkariga Rita Avize writes: "Neither today nor tomorrow will change, because there is a transitional period which will last at least until the end of the year. What is difficult to predict, however, is whether London and Brussels will be able to reach agreement on future coexistence during this period." Conservative Polish newspaper Rzeczpospolita writes: "None of the remaining 27 EU member states have the advantages of Great Britain: its world language, its cultural influence, its geographical location, its support from America. Nevertheless: if Brussels doesn't draw thorough lessons from Brexit it's easy to imagine that in another country public opinion on the subject of integration could change in a similar way to that in Britain. 08:45 As Europeans and pro-unity Brits mourn their departure, Brexit apostle Nigel Farage has planned gleeful celebrations in London. The arch-Brexiteer has planned a "Brexit Celebration" rally for his supporters in Parliament Square, where they plan to sing patriotic songs and listen to speeches. The veteran Europsceptic delivered an exultant speech during his last day as a member of the European Parliament on Wednesday, declaring Britain was "never coming back" as he waved Union Jack flags. Fellow eurosceptics have also planned a "have your cake and eat it" picnic in central London, in mockery of European criticisms of British Brexit demands. Organizer Lucy Harris, an outgoing MEP, wrote on the event's website: "Now it's time to celebrate this historic day." After a shrill referendum campaign, nearly 52% of British voters opted to leave the EU on June 23. Polls had shown a close race before the vote with a slight lead for those favoring remaining in the EU. Conservative British Prime Minister David Cameron, who had campaigned for Britain to stay, acknowledged the "will of the British people" and resigned the following morning. Former Home Secretary Theresa May replaced David Cameron as prime minister on July 11 and promised the country that "Brexit means Brexit." May had quietly supported the Remain campaign before the referendum. She did not initially say when her government would trigger Article 50 of the EU treaty to start the two-year talks leading to Britain's formal exit. May eventually signed a diplomatic letter over six months later on March 29, 2017 to trigger Article 50. Hours later, Britain's ambassador to the EU, Tim Barrow, handed the note to European Council President Donald Tusk. Britain's exit was officially set for March 29, 2019. Tusk ended his brief statement on the decision with: "We already miss you. Thank you and goodbye." British Brexit Secretary David Davis and the EU's chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, kicked off talks in Brussels on June 19. The first round ended with Britain reluctantly agreeing to follow the EU's timeline for the rest of the negotiations. The timeline split talks into two phases. The first would settle the terms of Britain's exit, and the second the terms of the EU-UK relationship post-Brexit. The second round of talks in mid-July began with an unflattering photo of a seemingly unprepared British team. It and subsequent rounds ended with little progress on three phase one issues: How much Britain still needed to pay into the EU budget after it leaves, the post-Brexit rights of EU and British citizens and whether Britain could keep an open border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. Leaders of the remaining 27 EU members formally agreed that "sufficient progress" had been made to move on to phase two issues: the post-Brexit transition period and the future UK-EU trading relationship. While Prime Minister Theresa May expressed her delight at the decision, European Council President Tusk ominously warned that the second stage of talks would be "dramatically difficult." British ministers appeared to back a Brexit plan at May's Chequers residence on July 6. The proposal would have kept Britain in a "combined customs territory" with the EU and signed up to a "common rulebook" on all goods. That went too far for British Foreign Minister Boris Johnson and Brexit Secretary David Davis, who resigned a few days later. May replaced them with Jeremy Hunt and Dominic Raab. May's Chequers proposal did not go down well with EU leaders, who told her at a summit in Salzburg in late September that it was unacceptable. EU Council President Tusk trolled May on Instagram, captioning a picture of himself and May looking at cakes with the line: "A piece of cake perhaps? Sorry, no cherries." The gag echoed previous EU accusations of British cherry-picking. EU leaders endorsed a 585-page draft divorce deal and political declaration on post-Brexit ties in late November. The draft had been widely condemned by pro- and anti-Brexit lawmakers in the British Parliament only weeks earlier. Brexit Secretary Dominic Raab resigned along with several other ministers, and dozens of Conservative Party members tried to trigger a no-confidence vote in May. In the face of unrelenting opposition, May postponed a parliamentary vote on the deal on December 10. The next day, she met with German Chancellor Angela Merkel to seek reassurances that would, she hoped, be enough to convince skeptical lawmakers to back the deal. But while she was away, hard-line Conservative lawmakers triggered a no-confidence vote. May won the vote a day later. The UK Parliament voted 432 to 202 against May's Brexit deal on January 16. In response to the result, European Council President Donald Tusk suggested the only solution was for the UK to stay in the EU. Meanwhile, Britain's Labour Party called for a no-confidence vote in the prime minister, her second leadership challenge in as many months. May tried to get legal changes to the deal's so-called Irish backstop in the weeks that followed. She eventually got assurances that the UK could suspend the backstop under certain circumstances. But on March 12, Parliament voted against the revised Brexit deal by 391 to 242. EU leaders warned the vote increased the likelihood of a no-deal Brexit. Two days later, MPs voted to delay Brexit. Following the second defeat of May's divorce deal, the European Council met in Brussels on March 21 to decide what to do next. EU leaders gave May two options: delay Brexit until May 22 if MPs vote for the withdrawal deal or delay it until April 12 if they vote against the deal. If the deal were to fail again in Parliament, May could ask for a long extension. On March 29, the day that the UK was supposed to leave the EU, British lawmakers voted for a third time against May's deal — rejecting it this time with a vote of 344 to 286. Following the latest defeat, May approached the main opposition Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn in an attempt to find a compromise, angering hardline Brexiteers in her own Conservative party. With the April 12 deadline looming after the third defeat of May's deal, EU leaders met again in Brussels to discuss a second delay. The only question was how long should it be? In the end, the UK and EU agreed to a "flexible" extension until October 31 — which can end sooner if the Brexit deal is approved. The UK had to take part in EU elections in May because their exit wasn't secured in time. Weeks of talks between Prime Minister Theresa May and the Labour party to reach a deal proved unsuccessful and further eroded her political capital. She triggered an angry backlash from her party after she tried to put the option of a second referendum on the table. The series of failures led May to announce her resignation, effective June 7, in an emotional address. After Theresa May announced on June 7 that she would leave office, other members of her Conservative party began clamoring for the top job. Within a month, the leadership battle came down to Jeremy Hunt (left), an EU proponent who fears a no-deal scenario, and Boris Johnson (right), one of the main proponents of Brexit. At the end of July 2019, Johnson was officially named Theresa May's successor as British prime minister. "We are going to energize the country, we are going to get Brexit done by October 31," he said after he was elected leader of the Conservative Party. Conservative rebels and opposition MPs backed efforts to delay an October 31 Brexit deadline in fear of a no-deal departure. In response, Johnson called for a general election, saying his government cannot rule without a mandate after he stripped 21 rebel MPs of their Conservative status. The Labour Party said it would not back elections until legislation to block a no-deal Brexit was in place. In late September, Britain's highest court ruled that Johnson's decision to suspend Parliament ahead of the UK's planned exit was unlawful. "This was not a normal prorogation in the run-up to a Queen's Speech," said the Supreme Court. Political rivals immediately called on Johnson to leave his post. Johnson said he would abide by the court ruling, though said he "strongly" disagreed. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson managed to secure a deal with European negotiators that would allow the UK to leave the EU in an orderly manner. The deal received unanimous backing from the leaders of 27 other member states. But an attempt to get the UK Parliament to sign off on the deal failed. Instead, Parliament pushed for the Brexit deadline to be extended until the end of January 2020. On December 22, UK lawmakers vote for Prime Minister Johnson's European Union withdrawal bill, which will see a leave date of January 31 2020 enshrined in law. Getting a majority to vote to pass the bill in the lower house has proven a major sticking point for the PM, but following a general election Johnson's Conservative party won control of the house and the bill passed with a 124 majority. 08:19 Boris Johnson will address the nation in a reportedly pre-recorded speech at 10 p.m. UTC/GMT tonight. His office has released extracts of the speech, in which he will call for national unity and present a rosy future for the UK. "Our job as the government, my job, is to bring this country together and take us forward," he will say, according to the official extracts. "This is not an end but a beginning. This is the moment when the dawn breaks and the curtain goes up on a new act. "This is the dawn of a new era in which we no longer accept that your life chances — your family’s life chances — should depend on which part of the country you grow up in. "This is the moment when we begin to unite and level up. "And the most important thing to say tonight is that this is not an end but a beginning." Ahead of his planned speech, Johnson is due to host a special cabinet meeting in the north-eastern English city of Sunderland — an early adopter of the pro-Brexit wave. 07:55 How did we actually get to this point? Spoilers, you can partially thank David Cameron. Watch here: Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3X4bE 07:50 Are you wondering what will actually change tonight? We've got you covered. I recommend Rob Mudge's piece here  that spells out exactly what to expect. An extract: Britain will remain in the single market, the customs union and will continue paying into the EU budget. British citizens can continue to move freely, work and study in the EU while EU nationals in the UK have the same rights. Read more: Brexit day: All change on January 31? European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, European Council President Charles Michel and the President of the European say Brexit has unified the remaining states 07:45 There will be volumes of commentary coming out today. But we lead with a joint statement from European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, European Council President Charles Michel and the President of the European Parliament David Sassoli, published in the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung today. They write of their sadness at the departure of the UK, but warn that they cannot expect unfettered access to the European market. In the weeks, months and years ahead, we will have no choice but to loosen some of the ties that the EU and the UK have so carefully woven over five decades. At the same time, we will have to fight hard to find new ways of working together for our future as allies, partners and friends. Even though the United Kingdom is no longer a member of the EU, it remains part of Europe. Our common geography, our history and our connections in so many areas inevitably bind us together and make us natural allies. In foreign policy, security, and defense, we will continue to work together with common goals and common interests. But the way we work together will change. We do not underestimate the task ahead, but we are confident that with goodwill and determination we can build a lasting, positive and meaningful partnership. But tomorrow will also mark the dawn of a new era for Europe. In recent years we have grown closer - as nations, as institutions and as people. In this time we have all been reminded that the European Union is more than a market or an economic power; that it stands for values that are common to us all and that we stand for. How much stronger we are when we stand together. 07:40 Good morning and welcome to our Brexit day live blog. I (Alistair Walsh) will be leading this blog for the next six hours. The day has finally come. No more delays, no more extensions. Brexit happens tonight. The UK has been a part of this extraordinary peace project for more than 47 years. But three and half years ago it voted to remove itself. The decision has torn the country apart, and compromised the unity of the EU. Join us today as we follow the final moments of the UK's membership in the EU.