Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro was the guest of honor at India's annual Republic Day festivities in New Delhi on Sunday, a celebration that marked the anniversary of the establishment of the country's constitution in 1950. A lavish 90-minute parade was broadcast live to millions of Indians watching around the country. The footage showed thousands of people gathered along a ceremonial boulevard in the capital city to watch folk dancers, school children, police and military units proceed down the route. Colorful parade floats featured men and women in an array of traditional clothing, performing cultural dances, highlighting India's diverse cultural heritage. India's military strength was also on full display, with tanks, rocket launchers and nuclear-capable missile systems on parade. Indian police joined the Republic Day parade in New Delhi Brazilian guest of honor At the center of the festivities was the far-right Brazilian president, who joined Indian President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the presidential palace. The two Indian leaders presented Bolsonaro with the ceremonial Guard of Honor before the trio took in the parade as it marched along a nearby street. The visit was intended to strengthen ties between the two countries and create mutual trade and investment opportunities. Bolsonaro and Modi signed a series of agreements on Saturday. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3QCxt Protesters double down Security at the Sunday celebration was higher than in prior years. India continues to be rocked by mass protests against a new citizenship law that excludes Muslim migrants from neighboring countries from a fast-track to naturalization. For many, the new law is representative of what they see as a war on secular values in Indian society. Read more: Opinion: The death of Indian democracy Protests continued overnight and into Sunday in New Delhi. Demonstrators read the preamble of the constitution before large crowds. Other "save the constitution" events were held at various locations around the country. Away from the Republic Day festivities, Indians continued to protest a controversial new citizenship law Meanwhile, mobile phone services were cut off for several hours in Indian Kashmir. Service had finally been restored just a day before, after the central government cut access to the Muslim majority area in August when it stripped the region of its semi-autonomous status. The northeastern state of Assam was rocked by four explosions, though no one was injured. The police said they were carried out by separatist militants who have been known to boycott Republic Day celebrations. The Indian government suspended internet services and tightened security on Friday in several parts of the country, including the northern state of Uttar Pradesh. The government is expecting another wave of violent protests against the controversial new Citizenship Amendment Act, which was enacted on December 11. The new law gives Hindu, Sikh, Buddhist, Jain, Christian and Parsi immigrants from Muslim-majority Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan a path toward fast-track citizenship. Critics say the law discriminates against Muslims and that the award of citizenship based on religion violates India's secular constitution. The Indian government is also preparing plans for a National Register of Citizens (NRC), in what it says is an attempt to identify and expel undocumented illegal immigrants. If a nationwide NRC is implemented, critics fear that residents unable to prove citizenship would be turned stateless. A similar exercise in Assam state has already excluded nearly 2 million residents from the list. Several liberal-minded intellectuals such as the well-known writer Arundhati Roy have sharply criticized the new law and the government's plan to create a nationwide citizenship registration. Conservative politicians such as Subramanian Swamy, a former minister of commerce, has called for Roy to be arrested and charged with sedition. Students from several universities across the country have taken to the streets to protest against the new measures. Several student organizations are at the forefront of the protests. They are making use of social media to wage a parallel battle online and teach people how to organize demonstrations. Indian authorities have deployed thousands of riot police to control the protests. At least 25 people have so far died in two weeks of at times violent demonstrations. India's army chief has also criticized the role of students in the protests. Prime minister Narendra Modi's Hindu-nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has remained adamant throughout the protests. They say that people are misguided and don't understand the real meaning of the law. The BJP blames the opposition Congress Party for creating confusion and igniting fear. The Rashitrya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) is a right-wing, Hindu-nationalist paramilitary volunteer organization. Members of the group, which is the parent organization of the BJP, were seen parading on the outskirts of Hyderabad in support of the new law. Author: Rodion Ebbighausen kp/mm (AFP, AP, dpa) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here