French officials on Friday confirmed three cases of the new coronavirus from China, marking the first time the deadly virus was detected in Europe. Health Minister Agnes Buzyn said two of the infected individuals had recently traveled to China and were placed in isolation. The third person is a close relative of one of the other two. Buzyn added that more cases were likely to be discovered. "We know that since the patient has been on French soil they have had contact with a dozen people, we are going to contact them," she said of one of the infected patients. "You have to treat an epidemic as you treat a fire, quickly to locate the source" and "contain it as quickly as possible," Buzyn added. The virus, which is thought to have originated at an animal market in Wuhan, spread to humans and can be transmitted from person to person. France's announcement came as more than a dozen countries around the world reported infections. Nepal also confirmed a case on Friday — the first in a South Asian country. Australia announced on Saturday its first confirmed infection, a man who had been in Wuhan and arrived from China last week. Malaysia, meanwhile, said three Chinese nationals, on holiday from Wuhan and who had passed through Singapore, were found to have the virus. They are now in a stable condition in an isolation ward at a public hospital. Chinese authorities on Saturday ordered stepped up screening at transport hubs nationwide Chinese New Year impact As of early Saturday, at least 41 fatalities have been reported in China. A further 237 patients are in serious condition. Officials have placed a lockdown on at least 18 cities covering more than 56 million inhabitants in an attempt to contain the virus' spread. More than 1,280 people have been infected globally. Beijing has also ordered nationwide screening measures at airports, ports, and major train and bus stations to detect the virus. Medical teams from Shanghai, Guangdong and the People's Liberation Army were sent to Wuhan to relieve strained health workers. Chinese authorities have also canceled various events relating to Lunar New Year, which begins Saturday. Millions of Chinese travel for the festive holidays to be with family and gather for large public celebrations. State news agency Xinhua also reported on Saturday that Beijing had sent sending 450 medical military personnel to Wuhan, many of whom have experience handling cases of SARS and the ebola virus. Read more: Chinese New Year: Entering the Year of the Rat amid the coronavirus crisis On December 31, 2019, China notifies the World Health Organization of a string of respiratory infections in the city of Wuhan, home to some 11 million people. The root virus is unknown and disease experts around the world begin working to identify it. The strain is traced to a seafood market in the city, which is quickly shut down. Some 40 people are initially reported to be infected. Researchers initially rule out the SARS virus, the deadly respiratory illness that originated in China in 2002, killing nearly 800 people worldwide. On January 7, Chinese scientists announce they've identified a new virus. Like SARS and the common cold, it is in the coronavirus family. It is temporarily named 2019-nCoV. Symptoms include fever, coughing, difficulty breathing, and pneumonia. On January 11, China announces the first death from the coronavirus — a 61-year-old man, who had shopped at the Wuhan market, dies from complications with pneumonia. In the following days, countries such as Thailand and Japan begin to report cases of infections in people who had visited the same Wuhan market. In China, a second fatality is confirmed in the city. By January 20, three people die in China and more than 200 are infected. Through mid-January, scientists scramble to find out how the illness is being spread among people. Coronaviruses are zoonotic, meaning they are transmitted from animals to people. Some coronaviruses can be transmitted by coughing and sneezing. Airports around the world begin screening passengers arriving from China. On January 20, officials confirm the virus can be passed directly between humans. China places Wuhan on quarantine on January 23 in an attempt to limit the spread of the virus. Transportation is suspended and workers attempt to quickly build a new hospital to treat infected patients, which total over 830 by January 24, as the death toll climbs to 26. Officials eventually extend the lockdown to 13 other cities, affecting more at least 36 million people. More and more cases are confirmed outside of China, including in South Korea, US, Nepal, Thailand, Hong Kong, Singapore and Taiwan. As the number of infections rises, the World Health Organization on January 23 determines that it's "too early" to declare a global public health emergency. On January 24, French authorities confirm three cases of the new coronavirus within its borders, marking the disease's first appearance in Europe. Hours later, Australia confirms one person has been infected with the respiratory virus. The Chinese Lunar New Year begins with subdued festivities on January 25. Officials cancel many major events in a bid to contain the outbreak, as millions of Chinese travel and take part in public celebrations. The death toll rises to 41, and over 1,300 infected worldwide — though most cases are in China. Scientists hope to have the first coronavirus vaccines ready within three months. Author: Cristina Burack Praise for China The World Health Organization (WHO) recognized that China faces a national health emergency, but stopped short of declaring the outbreak a global health emergency. Officials fear the coronavirus outbreak could mirror that of the SARS pandemic, a respiratory virus that originated in China in 2002 and spread quickly, eventually infecting some 8,000 individuals worldwide and killing 800. At the time, China faced criticism of having covered up the initial situation surrounding the SARS virus. In contrast, health officials have recently praised China for its transparency over the coronavirus. Read more: SARS remembered — how a deadly respiratory virus hit Asian economies WHO's director-general, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, after an emergency meeting on Thursday thanked Beijing for its "cooperation and transparency" and approved of the measures China was taking to try and contain further transmission of the virus. Following a second confirmed case of the virus in the US, President Donald Trump on Twitter thanked the Chinese president for the country's response. Germany's health minister, Jens Spahn, also approved of China's response to the coronavirus outbreak. In an interview with Bloomberg TV in Davos, Spahn said, "There's a big difference to SARS. We have a much more transparent China. The action  of China is much more effective in the first days already." Spahn also highlighted international cooperation and communication pertaining to the coronavirus, and said that Germany's center for disease control was checking the situation daily. mm, cmb/stb (EFE, AFP, dpa) It has not been proven that the face masks seen above can effectively protect you against viral infections. That said, these masks are probably able to catch some germs before they reach your mouth or nose. More importantly, they prevent people from touching their mouth or nose (which most people do instinctually). If you are already sick, such masks may keep you from infecting others. In its list of recommendations onhow to protect yourself from getting infected, the World Health Organisation does not mention face masks. At the top is frequently cleaning your hands. The WHO recommends alcohol-based hand rub, like the ones seen here in a hospital. The more simple day-to-day solution is water and soap, if you've got some handy. But make sure to wash your hands thoroughly. So here's what the doctors recommend: When coughing and sneezing, cover your mouth and nose with your flexed elbow. Or use tissue — but then immediately throw that tissue away and wash your hands. With your shirt or sweater, however, no, you don't need to throw them away. Do wash them frequently, though, or take them to the dry cleaner's. Another recommendation that may not work for everybody: Avoid close contact with anyone who has fever and cough! If you have to tend to sick people, make doubly sure to take additional protective measures. If you have fever, cough and difficulty breathing, seek medical care early. Avoid public places so you don't infect others. And also, explain to your doctor where you've previously traveled. When visiting live markets in areas currently experiencing cases of the novel coronavirus, avoid direct unprotected contact with live animals. That includes any surfaces that are in contact with animals as well. Cook meat thoroughly. The consumption of raw, or undercooked, animal products should be avoided. Raw meat, milk or animal organs should be handled with care to avoid cross-contamination with uncooked foods. These are good food safety practices and help prevent the spread of illnesses. Author: Fabian Schmidt Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.