A Swiss court has ruled in favor of a dozen young climate activists who occupied a branch of a Credit Suisse bank and played tennis in a protest against fossil fuel investments. In his ruling on Monday, Judge Philippe Colelough said due to the imminent danger of the climate crisis the students, who wore complete tennis outfits as part of their demonstration, were not guilty of refusing to pay fines linked to charges like protesting without a permit and resisting police. Wearing white sports clothes and wigs, the protesters — mainly students — staged the match at a Lausanne branch of the Swiss bank in November 2018 to underscore their movement and urge tennis star Roger Federer to end his sponsorship arrangement with the financial institution. Read more: Amid 'climate emergency,' EU pins hopes on Green Deal Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3KOGM It's all relative The activists were charged with trespassing and fined 21,600 Swiss francs ($22,200) at the time, but in their appeal hearing Judge Colelough said they had acted proportionately and waived the financial penalty, which will now be paid for by the state. The activists had argued they were in the Credit Suisse branch because of the "imminent danger" the planet is facing — a stance the judge agreed with. "Because of the insufficient measures taken to date in Switzerland, whether they be economic or political, the average warming will not diminish nor even stabilize, it will increase," he said, pointing to the country's melting glaciers. "In view of this, the tribunal considers that the imminence of danger is established," the judge continued. "The act for which they were incriminated was a necessary and proportional means to achieve the goal they sought." Read more: Meet the scientists quitting academia for climate activism Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3DEGV The courtroom reacted with cheers and a standing ovation. "I didn't think it was possible," one of the accused, Beate Thalmann, told the Reuters news agency. "If Switzerland did this, then maybe we have a chance." Credit Suisse responded to the ruling via a statement that said the bank "takes note of the verdict and will analyze it." The bank had previously argued it could not accept "unlawful attacks" on its branches, while acknowledging the "freedom of expression as a fundamental democratic right." In relation to its environmental policies, the bank added it would take a different approach, saying "in the context of its global climate strategy that it will no longer invest in new coal-fired power plants." Federer responds to criticism, makes bushfire donation Roger Federer, meanwhile, reacted to criticism of his association with Credit Suisse by releasing a statement over the weekend saying he takes climate change "very seriously." The Swiss tennis star, who came under fire from teen activist Greta Thunberg among others, said: "I appreciate reminders of my responsibility as a private individual, as an athlete and as an entrepreneur, and I'm committed to using this privileged position to dialogue on important issues with my sponsors." Read more: Bushfires cast shadow over Australian Open A spokeswoman said Monday that talks with Credit Suisse were already underway on its climate change impact, without elaborating further on what those discussions involved. Federer, who is in Melbourne ahead of the Australian Open, also promised to make a donation to the Australia bushfires appeal following the devastating blazes the country has suffered in recent weeks. The 38-year-old, who has won the Slam down under six times, is also set to take part in a charity event to raise funds for the appeal on Wednesday. He didn't stop there, though, as he will "be making a donation personally," Federer announced on Monday. "This country has given me everything and more in the past so it's only normal for me to help as well." In American football, the top stars still earn a lot of money without even having to win titles. Matthew Stafford could not lead his Detroit Lions into the Super Bowl, but the 30-year-old quarterback brings in a yearly salary of €50.7 million. Another quarterback who hasn't made it to the Super Bowl: Matt Ryan of the Atlanta Falcons. Having earned €57.4 million last year, he is (at least financially) ahead of Super Bowl winner Nick Foles (Philadelphia Eagles) and superstar Tom Brady (New England Patriots), who are both outside the top 100 earners. Stephen Curry, the man for the special moments. He is known for his accuracy from the three point line or even further. His 'magical throwing hand ' brings him annually €65.6 million — only one basketball player gets more. What a comeback for the man from Switzerland. Two grand slam titles, seven tournament victories and a match record comparable with his peak. Roger Federer returned in 2017 in impressive style, and thus earned €65.8 million as he returns to the top ten. His fans just call him "King James". The undisputed superstar of the NBA has won three championships and clinched four MVP titles. James signed a lifelong advertising contract with Nike in 2015, which contributes a large chunk of his annual income of €72.9 million. In football terms, he is still in the shadow of Ronaldo and Messi — and financially too. Although his €222 million transfer made him the most expensive player of all time, his annual income is still behind his big rivals at a mere €76.7 million. Who is Conor McGregor? A mixed martial arts fighter who crossed into boxing for one huge fight against superstar Floyd Mayweather in August 2017. This Irishman predictably lost the fight, but earned €63.9 million in one night, five times the amount of his best-paid MMA fight. He made €84.4 million in the year. The Portuguese superstar drops from first place to third in the list, despite increasing his income from €83 to €92.1 million. Not good for his ego. But anyone who knows Ronaldo knows this will only make him more ambitious. Cynics might say part of the €94.6 million annual income of Lionel Messi belongs to the Spanish taxpayer (allegedly). His Barcelona salary accounts for €71.6 million of the total income, with sponsorship deals — including a huge deal with Adidas — accounting for most of the rest. Yes, professional boxers live dangerously and risk a lot for their career. But this sum more than makes up for the pain. Floyd Mayweather Jr. took home a staggering €242.9 million in 2017. That is €4,670,000 per week, or in other words, an hourly wage of €27,728! That would be Sebastian Vettel. However, the four-times Formula One world champion slipped from rank 14 to 18, despite increasing his income by €2 million to €36 million per year. His rival Lewis Hamilton (43.5 million euro) is ranked 12th. Vettel is the only German athlete in Forbes' top 100 ranking. Equal pay for men and women? Definitely not in professional sports. Not a single woman finds herself in the Forbes list of the 100 best paid athletes. Serena Williams slips out of the rankings after taking last year off to have a baby, having been at number 51 the year before. Her annual salary of €15.7 million is nice comfort, but also a sad reflection on the world of sport. Author: Michael Da Silva jsi/cmk (Reuters, AP, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.