Five countries whose citizens died when Iran shot down an airliner last week issued a joint statement on Thursday, calling for Tehran to pay compensation to the families of the victims. Canada, Ukraine, Sweden, Afghanistan and UK said Iran must hold a "thorough, independent and transparent international investigation open to grieving nations." Read more: Why the US and Iran are not at war The foreign ministers of the five countries met on Thursday at the Canadian High Commission in London. "We are here to pursue closure, accountability, transparency and justice" for the victims, Canadian Foreign Minister Francois-Philippe Champagne said in London. "Families want answers, the international community wants answers, the world is waiting for answers and we will not rest until we get them," he added. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3W2wf What has happened since the plane was downed? All 176 people aboard the Ukraine International Airlines flight died when the aircraft was brought down by ballistic missiles shortly after taking off from Tehran's Imam Khomeini International Airport on January 8. The victims included 57 Canadian citizens as well as 11 Ukrainians, 17 people from Sweden, four Afghans and four Britons, as well as Iranians. The foreign ministers said they welcomed Iran's engagement on the matter so far. A Canadian investigatory team is currently on the ground, having received cooperation and visas from the Iranian government in record time. Read more: Iran: Mega rallies 'drown out' complex realities Iran has accepted full responsibility for the plane going down, but were slow to admit that the downing was anything more than an accident. The plane was shot down on the same day that Iranian missiles targeted two US-led coalition army bases in Iraq, as retaliation for the US killing of Iranian General Qassem Soleimani. Iranian people have also taken to the streets demanding answers for why the airliner was shot down. Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. ed/stb (AP, AFP, Reuters)