Barcelona has fired coach Ernesto Valverde midway through the season, replacing him with former Real Betis head coach Quique Setien. "FC Barcelona and Quique Setien have reached an agreement for the latter to become first team coach until 30 June 2022," the Spanish champions said in a statement late Monday. "Setien is one of the most experienced coaches in Spanish football. Throughout his career he has been a proponent of possession based, attacking football that has been attractive to the fans." Seeking top-level success The 55-year-old Valverde, who led Barcelona to consecutive La Liga titles in 2018 and 2019, ultimately paid the price for a lack of Champions League success. The Catalans famously blew a three-goal advantage against Liverpool in last season's semifinals of Europe's premier competition, a result Valverde never really recovered from. Speculation was rife over Valverde's future throughout Monday afternoon, but he was eventually relieved of his duties after a four-hour board meeting at the club's Camp Nou stadium. Read more: Messi wins record sixth men's Ballon d'Or, Rapinoe wins women's award The club statement read: "Barcelona would like to publicly express its gratitude to Ernesto Valverde for his professionalism and commitment." The 61-year-old Setien will be presented to the fans on Tuesday. During his playing days he represented Atletico Madrid but famously once said: "I would have given my little finger to have played in Johan Cruyff's Barcelona." Valverde leaves the club midway through the season with the side on top of the Spanish league table. Setien's first game in charge will be at home to Granada on Sunday. Only a few meters from the De Meer Stadion, the great football talent Hendrik Johannes Cruyff (later better known as Johan Cruyff) inevitably joined Dutch flagship club Ajax. On November 15, 1964, he made his debut in the Eredivisie - aged just 17-years old. And of course, he scored. A lack of enthusiasm in the Ajax boardroom threatened to limit his time on the pitch. Weighing just 60 kilograms, Cruyff was considered too thin, but what especially displeased the officials at the Amsterdam club was his public cigarette smoking. The new head coach Rinus Michels was convinced of his talent, and made him a first-team regular, after strength exercises and forest runs. Cruyff was quickly becoming a superstar in the Ajax team and in a system, that today is famously known as 'Total Football': Aggressive pressing and continuous formation changes. The entire team begins the game with attacking pressure on the opponent. Among other things, the team won three European Cups, with the 1972 triumph pictured above. Cruyff was quick to become a talking point on the international stage. In his first international match in 1966, he was sent off - the first Dutch player to ever be shown a red card. The association suspended him for a year. Then, at the 1974 World Cup in West Germany, Cruyff captained the Netherlands to an incredible final, which they lost to the hosts. With many teammates Cruyff was known to show an arrogant manner which was not well received. At Ajax, he was voted out as captain. He was offended, but the timing was perfect - for the first time, the Spanish league opened its borders to foreign professionals. Coach Michels brought him to Barcelona and Cruyff's style of play was a perfect fit for the Catalan club. Surprisingly after a cup win in 1978, Cruyff announced his retirement from football. He then came back to join the North American professional soccer league, playing for the Los Angeles Aztecs for a year. After his American adventure, he played for Levante and Ajax again, before winning the double in 1983-84 with Feyenoord, whilst sporting a classic haircut (pictured). In 1985 Cruyff followed in the footsteps of his mentor Michels and became head coach of Ajax. While there, he developed the tactic which is still known as the "Ajax" system, an evolution of Total Football. At Ajax, and later at Barcelona, Cruyff had great success, developing young talents like Frank Rijkaard, putting to bed the claim that great players could not become great coaches. "I can't imagine a life without football, so I'll keep going," said Cruyff, who became a consultant at Ajax in 2008 after ending his coaching career. Cruyff has three children with wife, Danny (pictured) and here is shown smiling when announcing his retirement from his position as the CEO of Ajax in 2012. Today, it would be unthinkable: As a player, Cruyff smoked like a chimney. Before games, after games and even during the half-time break - Cruyff would enjoy upwards of 80 cigarettes a day. Because of this level of consumption, he suffered a heart attack in 1991 and stopped smoking, before taking part in anti-smoking campaigns. On March 24, 2016, he died of lung cancer. Author: Joscha Weber / Sarah Wiertz jsi/cmk (Reuters, AFP, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.