Schalke 2-0 Borussia Mönchengladbach, Veltins Arena (Serdar 48', Gregoritsch 58') Plenty of the Bundesliga's January transfer talk has revolved around Schalke, and a player determined to find a way out of his club. But while all eyes, keyboards and smartphones have been focused on Alexander Nübel's move to Bayern Munich, a low key loan signing from Augsburg hogged the spotlight and the points at the Veltins Arena on Friday. After laying on the opener for Suat Serdar, Michael Gregoritsch wrapped up three points that take Schalke above rivals Borussia Dortmund, at least temporarily, and in to the Champions League spots as the Bundesliga returned from its winter hibernation. As he swept home after brilliant work on the counter from the effervescent Benito Raman and the classy Serdar, Gregoritsch whipped out his trademark baseball swing celebration, one last seen back in May when he hit a brace off the bench for Augsburg in a 4-3 loss to Hertha Berlin. That bench became much too familiar for the 25-year-old this season though as Martin Schmidt sidelined the tall, elegant forward. He'd played just 303 Bundesliga minutes all season before Friday night and just five since October 6. Such limited opportunities frustrated Gregoritsch and a war of words played out between player and club, ending in a terse statement from Augsburg in late December that labeled him "unsatisfied" with his playing time and the loan deal with the Royal Blues a "win-win". Rapid redemption Whether Augsburg still see it that way must be open to debate. Gregoritsch was outstanding on Friday. Amid a frantic and frenzied opening, he had the best of the early chances but was denied brilliantly by Yann Sommer at the back post in the sixth minute. The wasted chance did nothing to dent his confidence though and the former Hamburg man always looked to have a little more time on the ball than most, as demonstrated by a sublime curled through ball to strike partner Raman just before the half-hour mark. The former Fortuna Düsseldorf man couldn't beat Sommer though. "You can imagine the feeling when you haven’t played in half a year and you miss those chances early on. I can’t say on TV what I was thinking, but you push on, that’s all you can do," Gregoritsch told German broadcaster ZDF after the game. A different option That wasn't quite all he could do. Later in the first half, with Marcus Thuram's header looping over Nübel's suspension replacement Markus Schubert and destined for the far corner, Gregoritsch popped up to head off the line, the first of numerous key contributions. Gregoritsch sweeps home on his Schalke debut His aerial ability at the other end certainly added another string to Schalke's attacking bow but that they attacked so freely with a new man leading the line and without their creative fulcrum Amine Harit is testament to how well David Wagner and the club have integrated their loan signing. After finally forcing his move through, Gregoritsch was relatively diplomatic, citing his desire to play for his country at Euro 2020 as a major factor in his desire to leave. If he keeps this up, that won't be his only taste of European football this year. The Bayer Leverkusen youth product looks set to move back to his native Germany in this window after 18 months in Ligue Un. The fullback, 22, has struggled with gametime at Monaco but his talent is not in doubt. RB Leipzig are believed to be the frontrunners, though Bayern Munich reportedly looked in to buying Henrichs in January. The commanding French center back is reportedly a target for Arsenal and their new head coach Mikel Arteta. Upamecano, 21, reads the game well, is strong in the air and has been a key member of a defense that’s become one of the Bundesliga’s meanest. But the Red Bulls are top of the table and not short of cash, he wouldn’t come cheap. Expected to leave in preseason, Boateng has instead played a little more than expected after the departure of Mats Hummels and injury to Niklas Süle. But he has been increasingly marginalized since Hansi Flick took over from Niko Kovac. At 31, and with high wages, Bayern may be happy to take a chance with their squad depth and, once again, Arsenal are his reported destination. The Spanish striker’s future is the subject of speculation despite a Bundesliga goal ratio better than a goal a game since joining, initially on loan, from Barcelona at the start of 2018-19. The high profile arrival of Erling Haaland and Dortmund’s frustration with Alcacer’s injury issues may see the poacher drop down the pecking order. Atletico Madrid are monitoring his situation. A regular for the Royal Blues over the last few years, Bentaleb had a difficult 2019. The Algerian midfielder was twice disciplined by the club at the end of last season, picked up a bad injury and has failed to convince new coach David Wagner of his value – the 25-year-old has yet to play a single minute this season. AC Milan were once interested but his suitors may be lower profile now. Still just 25, Can has already played for four major European clubs but a fifth could be just round the corner if reports in Germany are to be believed. The German international is yet to complete 90 minutes for the Italian champions this season and newly-wealthy Hertha Berlin are said to be interested with previous target Granit Xhaka being re-integrated at Arsenal. Dortmund may also be tempted. Another player struggling for minutes, Draxler has also fallen off Joachim Löw's radar since moving to the French capital. With Euro 2020 six months away, the 26-year-old would have plenty of options should he wish to move back to his homeland. Hertha have again been linked but Draxler's talents may warrant a more prestigious stage. Yet another player linked with Hertha in recent weeks, Dahoud has struggled to find his feet at the Westfalenstadion after impressing with Borussia Mönchengladbach. The central midfielder has only played more than an hour twice all season, though the departure of Julian Weigl could offer him more opportunities. Author: Matt Pearson