Deutsche Welle: Commission President, there were a lot of tears this week in Brussels because of the UK leaving the European Union. How are you feeling right now? Still sad? Ursula von der Leyen: Well, it's a very emotional day, because it's always sad when a family member chooses to be on the outside. And indeed, I have many, many friends in the UK. I studied there for one year at the London School of Economics. I have relatives in the UK ... some of my children have been studying in the UK. So, a lot of bonds. It's an emotional day. And what will you miss most about the UK? I'll miss their pragmatism. It helped a lot. They were always very down-to-earth. I'll certainly miss their wonderful British sense of humor. And well, this is it — so, from tomorrow on we'll have to deal with our British friends as a third country. Read more: What to know about UK travel post-Brexit Some say the hardest part will start now, negotiating the future relationship between the EU and the UK. Do you agree? Well, it's going to be hard and fair and fast negotiations. And it's true — I mean, now that the UK has chosen to be a third country we have to figure out how close do they want to be to the single market. The closer they want to be, the more they have to abide to the common rules of the single market. So it's more or less their choice whether they want to be distant and the access to the single market will be difficult, or the other way round. UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson said under no circumstances will he extend the transition period, meaning that if there is no agreement at the end of this year there will be a hard Brexit. Do you think that's a smart political move by him? Well it's his decision. But if at the end of the year this is the case, we're well prepared, because the most tricky parts for us have been solved in the Withdrawal Agreement: citizens' rights, a financial settlement, the island of Ireland. We've done that. We're fine with that. Now we are in a very strong position for the upcoming negotiations. If at the end of the year there will be a hard Brexit — well, the UK exports almost half of all its goods to the European Union. So it's gonna be tough. Read more: More economic pain inevitable for UK Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3X4bE But do you think he boxed himself in? And you as a politician, would you have made that move? Well, I do not have to advise him what to do. I think what we will do as the European Union, we will look at where we stand in summer and then decide. But even if at the end of the year we do not have an agreement, yes, there will be a hard Brexit — but the negotiations can go on. Now, [you're] saying you're going to negotiate a free trade agreement, most likely. Or try to negotiate a free trade agreement with the UK. Can you definitively say that one year to negotiate a free trade agreement is not enough? It's not only the free trade agreement. There are at least 10 or 11 different files and topics. Think about security, for example. So there is a lot to negotiate and therefore we'll work 24/7. And let's see how things are moving forward. But would you under normal circumstances? Something like that has never been negotiated in this short time? I said initially that I think we will need more time. But for this decision it always takes two and we are pretty relaxed on that question because, as I said, we have a good position. Read more: What happens on January 31 Would you say under these circumstances with Boris Johnson saying "no extension," with time being very short that a hard Brexit is inevitable? Listen, I think we should start now with the negotiations, because we have to look at the British mandate now. We will have our own mandate and I don't think it's smart now to predict whatever for the end of the year. Already I've laid out the different options that are there. But let's start now with the negotiations. What's your main goal in these negotiations? My main goal is to have a good and fair and the closest possible partnership with our British friends. We share a lot of common interests, but also to protect our Single Market, to protect a level playing field, to look for a level playing field with our British friends and to make sure that the union is united. I know you don't have a crystal ball, Commission President, but let me try anyway. Looking 10 years in the future, you think the UK might want to get back into the EU? Well, I keep telling my children that's the task for them and it's up to the British people. So, you know for me now it's important to say: "we are friends." We will have a future partnership. There are so many topics we have in common, like tackling climate change or digitalization, where we really are on the same page, where we should work together intensively. And let's let's look at the positive side of it. Let's make the best out of it. Commission President, thank you very much. Thank you. After a shrill referendum campaign, nearly 52% of British voters opted to leave the EU on June 23. Polls had shown a close race before the vote with a slight lead for those favoring remaining in the EU. Conservative British Prime Minister David Cameron, who had campaigned for Britain to stay, acknowledged the "will of the British people" and resigned the following morning. Former Home Secretary Theresa May replaced David Cameron as prime minister on July 11 and promised the country that "Brexit means Brexit." May had quietly supported the Remain campaign before the referendum. She did not initially say when her government would trigger Article 50 of the EU treaty to start the two-year talks leading to Britain's formal exit. May eventually signed a diplomatic letter over six months later on March 29, 2017 to trigger Article 50. Hours later, Britain's ambassador to the EU, Tim Barrow, handed the note to European Council President Donald Tusk. Britain's exit was officially set for March 29, 2019. Tusk ended his brief statement on the decision with: "We already miss you. Thank you and goodbye." British Brexit Secretary David Davis and the EU's chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, kicked off talks in Brussels on June 19. The first round ended with Britain reluctantly agreeing to follow the EU's timeline for the rest of the negotiations. The timeline split talks into two phases. The first would settle the terms of Britain's exit, and the second the terms of the EU-UK relationship post-Brexit. The second round of talks in mid-July began with an unflattering photo of a seemingly unprepared British team. It and subsequent rounds ended with little progress on three phase one issues: How much Britain still needed to pay into the EU budget after it leaves, the post-Brexit rights of EU and British citizens and whether Britain could keep an open border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. Leaders of the remaining 27 EU members formally agreed that "sufficient progress" had been made to move on to phase two issues: the post-Brexit transition period and the future UK-EU trading relationship. While Prime Minister Theresa May expressed her delight at the decision, European Council President Tusk ominously warned that the second stage of talks would be "dramatically difficult." British ministers appeared to back a Brexit plan at May's Chequers residence on July 6. The proposal would have kept Britain in a "combined customs territory" with the EU and signed up to a "common rulebook" on all goods. That went too far for British Foreign Minister Boris Johnson and Brexit Secretary David Davis, who resigned a few days later. May replaced them with Jeremy Hunt and Dominic Raab. May's Chequers proposal did not go down well with EU leaders, who told her at a summit in Salzburg in late September that it was unacceptable. EU Council President Tusk trolled May on Instagram, captioning a picture of himself and May looking at cakes with the line: "A piece of cake perhaps? Sorry, no cherries." The gag echoed previous EU accusations of British cherry-picking. EU leaders endorsed a 585-page draft divorce deal and political declaration on post-Brexit ties in late November. The draft had been widely condemned by pro- and anti-Brexit lawmakers in the British Parliament only weeks earlier. Brexit Secretary Dominic Raab resigned along with several other ministers, and dozens of Conservative Party members tried to trigger a no-confidence vote in May. In the face of unrelenting opposition, May postponed a parliamentary vote on the deal on December 10. The next day, she met with German Chancellor Angela Merkel to seek reassurances that would, she hoped, be enough to convince skeptical lawmakers to back the deal. But while she was away, hard-line Conservative lawmakers triggered a no-confidence vote. May won the vote a day later. The UK Parliament voted 432 to 202 against May's Brexit deal on January 16. In response to the result, European Council President Donald Tusk suggested the only solution was for the UK to stay in the EU. Meanwhile, Britain's Labour Party called for a no-confidence vote in the prime minister, her second leadership challenge in as many months. May tried to get legal changes to the deal's so-called Irish backstop in the weeks that followed. She eventually got assurances that the UK could suspend the backstop under certain circumstances. But on March 12, Parliament voted against the revised Brexit deal by 391 to 242. EU leaders warned the vote increased the likelihood of a no-deal Brexit. Two days later, MPs voted to delay Brexit. Following the second defeat of May's divorce deal, the European Council met in Brussels on March 21 to decide what to do next. EU leaders gave May two options: delay Brexit until May 22 if MPs vote for the withdrawal deal or delay it until April 12 if they vote against the deal. If the deal were to fail again in Parliament, May could ask for a long extension. On March 29, the day that the UK was supposed to leave the EU, British lawmakers voted for a third time against May's deal — rejecting it this time with a vote of 344 to 286. Following the latest defeat, May approached the main opposition Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn in an attempt to find a compromise, angering hardline Brexiteers in her own Conservative party. With the April 12 deadline looming after the third defeat of May's deal, EU leaders met again in Brussels to discuss a second delay. The only question was how long should it be? In the end, the UK and EU agreed to a "flexible" extension until October 31 — which can end sooner if the Brexit deal is approved. The UK had to take part in EU elections in May because their exit wasn't secured in time. Weeks of talks between Prime Minister Theresa May and the Labour party to reach a deal proved unsuccessful and further eroded her political capital. She triggered an angry backlash from her party after she tried to put the option of a second referendum on the table. The series of failures led May to announce her resignation, effective June 7, in an emotional address. After Theresa May announced on June 7 that she would leave office, other members of her Conservative party began clamoring for the top job. Within a month, the leadership battle came down to Jeremy Hunt (left), an EU proponent who fears a no-deal scenario, and Boris Johnson (right), one of the main proponents of Brexit. At the end of July 2019, Johnson was officially named Theresa May's successor as British prime minister. "We are going to energize the country, we are going to get Brexit done by October 31," he said after he was elected leader of the Conservative Party. Conservative rebels and opposition MPs backed efforts to delay an October 31 Brexit deadline in fear of a no-deal departure. In response, Johnson called for a general election, saying his government cannot rule without a mandate after he stripped 21 rebel MPs of their Conservative status. The Labour Party said it would not back elections until legislation to block a no-deal Brexit was in place. In late September, Britain's highest court ruled that Johnson's decision to suspend Parliament ahead of the UK's planned exit was unlawful. "This was not a normal prorogation in the run-up to a Queen's Speech," said the Supreme Court. Political rivals immediately called on Johnson to leave his post. Johnson said he would abide by the court ruling, though said he "strongly" disagreed. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson managed to secure a deal with European negotiators that would allow the UK to leave the EU in an orderly manner. The deal received unanimous backing from the leaders of 27 other member states. But an attempt to get the UK Parliament to sign off on the deal failed. Instead, Parliament pushed for the Brexit deadline to be extended until the end of January 2020. On December 22, UK lawmakers vote for Prime Minister Johnson's European Union withdrawal bill, which will see a leave date of January 31 2020 enshrined in law. Getting a majority to vote to pass the bill in the lower house has proven a major sticking point for the PM, but following a general election Johnson's Conservative party won control of the house and the bill passed with a 124 majority. DW's Max Hofmann conducted this interview in Brussels.