A new strain of coronavirus discovered in China claimed 15 more lives since Saturday, bringing the total death count to 56. Figures reflecting developments in the past 24 hours revealed 688 new cases, bringing the total of number of infections in China to 1,975, in what Chinese President Xi Jinping has classified as a "grave situation." A handful of new cases were reported in nearby Macao, Taiwan and Hong Kong, where protesters firebombed an empty building earmarked to become a temporary quarantine zone. The first suspected infection in Germany was reported on Sunday by the newspaper Bild, though the case, in Berlin, later came back as negative. Berlin State Secretary for Health Martin Matz told Bild that the patient, who had visited China, had been moved to an isolation ward as a precaution after presenting herself to a hospital in the city with some symptoms. "The test on this suspected case was negative," a spokeswoman for Berlin's DRK Klinikum Mitte confirmed. Ability to spread increasing In a press briefing on Sunday, China's National Health Commission Minister Ma Xiaowei said that the virus's transmission ability was getting stronger and that the number of cases could continue to rise. The minister said that experts' knowledge of the virus was limited and that the risks posed by a possible mutation were unknown. The infection's incubation period could last from one to 14 days, he said. Officials previously cautioned that the rapid increase in the death toll and number of infections did not necessarily indicate that the disease was spreading more quickly but could instead reflect improved monitoring and reporting practices. Most of the people who lost their lives to the virus were middle-aged or elderly and had a pre-existing medical condition. Wildlife trade banned Cases have also been identified in several other countries, including the US, France, Japan and Australia. Malaysia and Canada confirmed their first cases of the virus on Saturday. Read more: Everything you need to know about the new coronavirus Chinese officials announced Sunday that the country was banning indefinitely the trade of wildlife products in markets, supermarkets, restaurants, and on e-commerce platforms. The source of the virus has been traced to a seafood market that was illegally selling wildlife. Places that breed wildlife were placed under quarantine and the transportation of wildlife was also banned. Quarantines and evacuations The US Embassy in Beijing announced Sunday that the chartered plane arriving Tuesday to transport US citizens out of Wuhan, the city at the heart of the outbreak, would have a limited capacity and that those "at greater risk" from the virus would be given priority. French automaker PSA Group said it would also remove French employees from the city, adding that they would be quarantined before being brought back to France. Several Chinese provinces have banned interprovincial travel. In Shanghai, officials have stopped cruise ships from moving into and out of its port. The virus has disrupted Lunar New Year celebration plans for hundreds of millions of people. The holiday, which takes place this week, is among the most significant in China. On December 31, 2019, China notifies the World Health Organization of a string of respiratory infections in the city of Wuhan, home to some 11 million people. The root virus is unknown and disease experts around the world begin working to identify it. The strain is traced to a seafood market in the city, which is quickly shut down. Some 40 people are initially reported to be infected. Researchers initially rule out the SARS virus, the deadly respiratory illness that originated in China in 2002, killing nearly 800 people worldwide. On January 7, Chinese scientists announce they've identified a new virus. Like SARS and the common cold, it is in the coronavirus family. It is temporarily named 2019-nCoV. Symptoms include fever, coughing, difficulty breathing, and pneumonia. On January 11, China announces the first death from the coronavirus — a 61-year-old man, who had shopped at the Wuhan market, dies from complications with pneumonia. In the following days, countries such as Thailand and Japan begin to report cases of infections in people who had visited the same Wuhan market. In China, a second fatality is confirmed in the city. By January 20, three people have died in China and more than 200 are infected. Through mid-January, scientists scramble to find out how the illness is being spread among people. Coronaviruses are zoonotic, meaning they are transmitted from animals to people. Some coronaviruses can be transmitted by coughing and sneezing. Airports around the world begin screening passengers arriving from China. On January 20, officials confirm the virus can be passed directly between humans. China places Wuhan on quarantine on January 23 in an attempt to limit the spread of the virus. Transportation is suspended and workers attempt to quickly build a new hospital to treat infected patients, which total over 830 by January 24, as the death toll climbs to 26. Officials eventually extend the lockdown to 13 other cities, affecting at least 36 million people. More and more cases are confirmed outside of China, including in South Korea, the US, Nepal, Thailand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia and Taiwan. As the number of infections rises, the World Health Organization on January 23 determines that it's "too early" to declare a global public health emergency. On January 24, French authorities confirm three cases of the new coronavirus within its borders, marking the disease's first appearance in Europe. Hours later, Australia confirms four people have been infected with the respiratory virus. The Chinese Lunar New Year begins with subdued festivities on January 25. Officials cancel many major events in a bid to contain the outbreak, as millions of Chinese travel and take part in public celebrations. The death toll rises to 41, with over 1,300 infected worldwide — mostly in China. Scientists hope to have the first coronavirus vaccines ready within three months. Author: Cristina Burack Wuhan, home to 11 million people, has been on virtual lockdown for days. Trains and flights into and out of the city in eastern China were canceled and checkpoints were established along major motorways. On Sunday, officials banned the use of most vehicles in the downtown area and said 6,000 taxis would be made available should people need to get around. Authorities are encouraging people to stay at home. "I go out with a mask twice a day to walk the dog — that's the only outdoor activity," Violet Li, a Wuhan resident, told reporters by text message. Read more: What constitutes an international public health emergency? In desperate need of supplies Additional staff and medical supplies are due to arrive in the city, including 14,000 protective suits, and 110,000 pairs of gloves, goggles, and masks. Videos circulated on Saturday showing throngs of people lined up for examinations. Many complained they had been turned away because the hospitals were operating at full capacity. "We are steadily pushing forward the disease control and prevention ... But right now we are facing an extremely severe public health crisis," said Hu Yinghai, deputy director-general of the Civil Affairs Department, in a news briefing. Dozens of cities are also under quarantine, with schools and universities postponing the start a new semester until further notice. kp/mm (AP, dpa, Reuters) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.