Algeria released 76 anti-government protest figures from detention, the Justice Ministry said Thursday, just hours before a new government was appointed. Lakhdar Bouregaa, a popular veteran of Algeria's war of independence, was among those released, as was retired general Hocine Benhadid. Bouregaa was the founder of the Front for Socialist Forces, one of Algeria's oldest opposition parties. State television said 75 members of the "Hirak" anti-government protest movement were also freed. Bouregaa, 86, was arrested in June for "insulting a state body" and "taking part in a scheme to demoralize the army with the aim of harming the nation's defense." His name became rallying cry for many anti-government protesters who demanded his release. Bouregaa's lawyer said he would remain free during his trial, which was postponed until March 12. His arrest was widely attributed to comments he made about army chief Ahmed Gaid Salah, who masterminded the state's response to mass protests that led to the fall of longtime president Abdelaziz Bouteflika last April. Gaid Salah died suddenly from a heart attack in December. Protesters accused Gaid Salah of working to keep the army and ruling elite in power after Bouteflika's departure, but many also credited him for the army's restrained response to protests. Abdelmadjid Tebboune, an ex-premier under Bouteflika, was sworn in as Algeria's new president on December 19 after elections pushed by Gaid Salah but deemed illegitimate by the protest movement.  He took 58% of votes with a turnout of 40%. Protests erupted across Hong Kong in June over the introduction of a bill to allow the extradition of fugitives to mainland China. The bill was withdrawn in September, but months later, protesters are still demanding full democracy for the territory and an inquiry into police violence. The rallies have regularly turned ugly and security forces have been accused of being too heavy-handed. The sheer size of the protest movement has put Hong Kong and Beijing's leaders on the back foot, amid accusations that China is undermining the territory's special status under the "one country, two systems" agreement. On occasions, more than a million people poured into the streets. Local elections in November saw a huge landslide for the pro-democracy camp. Within months of schoolgirl Greta Thunberg's solo climate change protest outside the Swedish parliament, a new youth activist movement had grown into the millions. The Fridays for Future protests have unleashed more than 4,500 strikes across over 150 countries, including Germany. Thunberg's straightforward approach is credited with forcing several governments to declare a climate crisis. India's Parliament passed legislation this month that offers amnesty to non-Muslim undocumented immigrants from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan. The move prompted nationwide protests complaining that the law discriminates on the basis of religion. Prime Minister Modi insisted the bill offers sanctuary to people fleeing persecution but many fear it will render Muslim immigrants stateless. In October, Iraqis poured onto the streets to protest against corruption, unemployment and Iran's influence on the country's government. The demonstrations quickly turned violent, with some 460 people killed and 25,000 injured. Prime Minister Adil Abdul-Mahdi announced his resignation, fueling further anger over efforts to install an interim leadership, which protesters say is more of the same. Lebanon saw a similar outpouring of anger in October over plans to hike taxes on gasoline, tobacco and even WhatsApp phone calls. The protests quickly morphed into a wider condemnation of endemic state corruption and falling living standards. Despite Prime Minister Saad Hariri stepping down, protest leaders refused to meet with his interim successor and are demanding an establishment overhaul. In November, Tehran was widely denounced for its crackdown on protests that erupted over fuel rationing and a 50% gasoline price hike. More than 200,000 people poured onto the streets of several cities and quickly turned riotous, prompting a strong response. The US State Department says more than one thousand people were killed during the bloodiest period in Iran since the 1979 Islamic Revolution. Months of civil disobedience led to the overthrow of Sudan's longtime ruler Omar al-Bashir in April and threw the northeastern African country into a political crisis. Military and pro-democracy parties have since been fighting to secure power. Dozens of people were killed in the unrest. In August, the two sides signed a constitutional declaration to form a transitional government. Protests in Chile began just over two months ago, sparked by tensions over the country's political and economic system. Protesters are demanding an overhaul of the health, pension and education systems. Several Latin American nations saw similar protests in 2019, including Bolivia, Honduras and Venezuela, where attempts to remove Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro peaked in May. France's yellow vest movement has proved a constant thorn in President Emmanuel Macron's side. The movement originated at the end of 2018 when drivers from rural areas complained about a planned fuel tax. It then morphed into a catch-all banner for very disparate groups of disaffected voters. By December, French unions were striking and on the streets again, this time over pension reforms. After nine Catalan separatist leaders were jailed by Spain's Supreme Court, a new wave of anger erupted, paralyzing the regional capital, Barcelona. Protests — which at one point involved half a million people — turned violent for six nights in a row. The general strike and accompanying unrest stopped transport and car production, even forcing the postponement of a Barcelona vs. Real Madrid match. Author: Leah Carter Olive branch? Tebboune is seeking dialogue with a nearly ten-month-old leaderless protest movement that continues to stage demonstrations since his election. The release of the prisoners may be a move to appease protesters and convince the opposition to talk. "The release of Bouregaa today is a good signal to alleviate the tension," analyst Farid Ferrahi told Reuters. The prisoner release came as Algeria appointed a new government on Thursday with many top posts unchanged, signalling Tebboune and the new Prime Minister Abdelaziz Djerad intend to maintain the status quo. Algeria's political crisis is matched by economic problems caused by falling energy revenues from the oil and gas sector. cw/kl (AFP, Reuters) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.