A Delta Airlines passenger jet with engine trouble dumped jet fuel as school children were playing outside in California on Tuesday while it made an emergency return to Los Angeles International Airport (LAX). Delta Airlines Flight 89 to Shanghai reported engine trouble a few minutes after takeoff. The fuel sprayed out of the plane in two lines and fell as a smelly mist on children at several schools about 13 miles (21 kilometers) east of the airport. "Shortly after takeoff, Flight 89 from LAX to Shanghai experienced an engine issue requiring the aircraft to return quickly to LAX," a Delta spokesperson told the Agence France Presse news agency. "The aircraft landed safely after a release of fuel, which was required as part of normal procedure to reach a safe landing weight." The fuel caused minor skin and lung irritation to 56 children and adults, fire officials said. All injuries were minor and there weren't any evacuations. The US Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) is still investigating the incident. "There are special fuel-dumping procedures for aircraft operating into and out of any major US airport," the FAA said in a statement. "These procedures call for fuel to be dumped over designated unpopulated areas, typically at higher altitudes so the fuel atomizes and disperses before it reaches the ground." A return flight from Germany to the Maldives (8,000 km each way; about 5,000 miles) has an effect on the climate equivalent to releasing more than five tons of carbon dioxide per person, Germany's Environment Agency (UBA) says. A mid-range car would release the same amount after driving 25,000 km. Flying at high altitudes releases more than just carbon dioxide. Condensation trails turn into thin and wispy 'cirrostratus' clouds, which, depending on the position of the sun and the earth's surface, can cool or warm the ground beneath it. Nitrogen oxides released from planes into sunlight also contribute to the greenhouse gas ozone, which warms the planet. Our daily lives warm the planet. Heating, electricity, clothing and food all form part of our carbon footprints. To limit global warming to 1.5 degrees celsius, UBA recommends each German emits about a ton of carbon dioxide in total — regardless if through flying or eating sausages. Air traffic doesn't just hurt the global climate — it also has local effects. The sound of aircrafts flying low overhead makes people more at risk of heart attacks, for example. Children who live near airports struggle to concentrate. And local air quality suffers from pollutants such as nitrogen oxides. Flying is subsidized more than other modes of transport. Aviation kerosene, which is used as jet fuel, is not taxed in the EU. In Germany, cross-border flights are exempt from value-added tax. Through that, the government waived more than €4.7 billion of tax revenue in 2012, according to the latest data by UBA. The costs of air travel are often subsidized on the ground. Taxpayers' money is often spent on building new airports, a form of indirect subsidy. And budget airlines such as Ryanair have come under fire for saving money through imposing poor working conditions on their staff. Only about 20% of the world population has ever flown. According to climate justice movement Stay Grounded, a minority of highly mobile people who are rich and educated cause 70% of all greenhouse gas emissions caused by flying. Author: Jeannette Cwienk (an) dv/se (AFP, AP) DW sends out a daily selection of hard news and quality feature journalism. Sign up here.