The Chinese Lunar New Year kicked off under somber circumstances on Saturday, with Chinese authorities calling off events and restricting travel over concerns linked to the outbreak of a deadly virus. Revelers canceled restaurant reservations and followed travel restrictions, opting to stay away from large crowds. The official death toll from the respiratory virus, which broke out six weeks ago, climbed from 26 on Friday to a total of 41 as of Saturday. Over 1,300 cases have been reported globally — 1,287 of them in China. Read more: Chinese New Year: Entering the Year of the Rat amid the coronavirus crisis The Lunar New Year marks the start of a new year on the Chinese calendar and is one of China's most significant holidays. The weeklong celebration normally includes reunions with family and friends and trips to locations that attract large crowds, like temples and firework displays. "Usually we celebrate as a family. Now, because of the virus I'm not even visiting my parents," said 49-year-old Wang Fang of Wuhan, the city at the source of the outbreak. "It'll be great just to be able to make it through the outbreak." China's health officials said the virus can be passed on to others by respiratory transmission. The origin of the virus has been traced to a seafood market in Wuhan in the central province of Hubei, where 39 of the deaths occurred. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3CCNP Travel suspended Health officials fear the number of cases could rise even further as hundreds of millions of people travel for the weeklong holiday. Many revelers canceled their travel plans, with Chinese airlines and railways cooperating by offering refunds. All flights into and out of Wuhan, an inland port city of 11 million people, were canceled, with authorities trying to limit the spread of the disease by preventing people from leaving. Residents were told not to leave the city "without a special reason." Transportation restrictions were also imposed on Hubei province, home to around 59 million people. The Chinese military dispatched 450 medical personnel to Wuhan on Friday, many of whom have experience with past outbreaks of SARS and Ebola. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3WmsX Popular events canceled While the Lunar New Year is normally an occasion for family reunions and celebrations, fear of the disease has caused many to cancel their plans. Several attractions in Beijing closed for the week, including the Forbidden City, the capital's most famous site, as well as Lama Temple, where the tradition is to make a new year offering. The city canceled all temple fairs, a popular tradition that includes food, performances, and games for children. Sections of the Great Wall outside of the city were also shut down. Shanghai Disney Resort closed its doors on Saturday for the week. The popular theme park can accommodate up to 100,000 people daily and tickets sold out over last year's Lunar New Year celebration. US coffeehouse chain Starbucks announced that all cafes in the Hubei province would remain closed throughout the holiday. McDonald's similarly closed all restaurants in five Hubei cities. Authorities have established checkpoints on the main roads leading out of Wuhan. The virus spreads Cases have been reported outside of China in Thailand, Vietnam, Singapore, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Nepal, Malaysia, France, the United States, and Australia, which could also dampen the mood among Chinese communities. The World Health Organization has declared the outbreak an "emergency in China" but has thus far refrained from calling it an international emergency. On December 31, 2019, China notifies the World Health Organization of a string of respiratory infections in the city of Wuhan, home to some 11 million people. The root virus is unknown and disease experts around the world begin working to identify it. The strain is traced to a seafood market in the city, which is quickly shut down. Some 40 people are initially reported to be infected. Researchers initially rule out the SARS virus, the deadly respiratory illness that originated in China in 2002, killing nearly 800 people worldwide. On January 7, Chinese scientists announce they've identified a new virus. Like SARS and the common cold, it is in the coronavirus family. It is temporarily named 2019-nCoV. Symptoms include fever, coughing, difficulty breathing, and pneumonia. On January 11, China announces the first death from the coronavirus — a 61-year-old man, who had shopped at the Wuhan market, dies from complications with pneumonia. In the following days, countries such as Thailand and Japan begin to report cases of infections in people who had visited the same Wuhan market. In China, a second fatality is confirmed in the city. By January 20, three people have died in China and more than 200 are infected. Through mid-January, scientists scramble to find out how the illness is being spread among people. Coronaviruses are zoonotic, meaning they are transmitted from animals to people. Some coronaviruses can be transmitted by coughing and sneezing. Airports around the world begin screening passengers arriving from China. On January 20, officials confirm the virus can be passed directly between humans. China places Wuhan on quarantine on January 23 in an attempt to limit the spread of the virus. Transportation is suspended and workers attempt to quickly build a new hospital to treat infected patients, which total over 830 by January 24, as the death toll climbs to 26. Officials eventually extend the lockdown to 13 other cities, affecting at least 36 million people. More and more cases are confirmed outside of China, including in South Korea, the US, Nepal, Thailand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia and Taiwan. As the number of infections rises, the World Health Organization on January 23 determines that it's "too early" to declare a global public health emergency. On January 24, French authorities confirm three cases of the new coronavirus within its borders, marking the disease's first appearance in Europe. Hours later, Australia confirms four people have been infected with the respiratory virus. The Chinese Lunar New Year begins with subdued festivities on January 25. Officials cancel many major events in a bid to contain the outbreak, as millions of Chinese travel and take part in public celebrations. The death toll rises to 41, with over 1,300 infected worldwide — mostly in China. Scientists hope to have the first coronavirus vaccines ready within three months. Author: Cristina Burack kp/mm (AP, Reuters) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.