German parents are alarmed by what they see as gaps in online providers' safeguards for their children, including failings to verify and deter underage usage. That's according to a representative survey published Monday by Germany's children's rights organization Kinderhilfswerk (DHKW). Key findings 1,003 parents or legal guardians caring for at least one child younger than 18 were sampled by the institute Mauss Research. Read more: German minister calls for "new culture" of language and remedial reading  DHKW president Thomas Krüger, a former Berlin senator for family and youth and current head of Germany's BPB civic education agency, on Monday demanded "effective framework of legislative requirements." 'Effective' rules to safeguard kids, urges Thomas Krüger "We needed a comprehensive system of child and juvenile media protection orientated around the real usage behaviors of children and teenagers," said Krüger, whose DHKW also has a special focus on helping kids learn media competencies. "Providers of messenger services and video platforms do particularly badly here," concluded the DKHW in its press statement, adding that providers' "efforts" were [generally] "assessed as insufficient." 'Insufficient' efforts, say parents Almost all parents — 97% — said that a "good" system of age verification was important in the choice of social media services or games for their offspring. And 88% said they scanned for age suitability designations for films, apps, games and streaming services, when overseeing their children's electronic usage. Read more: German plans to use fake porn to snare pedophiles Only 37% replied that they knew whom to consult about negative experiences. Among this cohort of respondents, only 66% were inclined to consult prosecutory services, notably the police, said the DKHW. "Potential offers that could help parents to safely accompany and support their children on the net are rated very positively overall," it urged. Engrossed on-screen or in books? Draft bill Late last year, Federal Family Minister Franziska Giffey of the center-left Social Democrats (SPD) submitted a draft "juvenile media protection" bill. Katja Mast, deputy leader of the SPD parliamentary party, told the German news agency DPA that such a modernization was agreed within the governing grand coalition comprising the SPD and Chancellor Angela Merkel's Christian Democrats (CDU). Giffey's bill would be submitted to Bundestag parliamentary debate before its mid-year summer recess, said Mast. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/1EEsd ipj/rt (dpa, AFP, KNA) Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. Sign up to receive it directly here.