German prosecutors on Tuesday launched raids on Mitsubishi's German subsidiary as well as several automotive suppliers across the country as part of an investigation into Mitsubishi's alleged use of devices designed to cheat on emissions tests for two types of engines. Frankfurt authorities said they had opened a fraud investigation against executives at "an international car group, a subsidiary of an international car dealership and two international car suppliers." Read more: Going Electric: A road trip through Germany Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Mdol A total of 10 commercial properties in North Rhine-Westphalia, Hesse, Lower Saxony and Bavaria were searched. Three of the properties raided belonged to automotive supplier Continental, which is listed as a witness in the case. The investigation is focusing on Mitsubishi diesel vehicles with 1.6- and 2.2-liter engines that adhere to Germany's highest Euro 5 and Euro 6 ratings, for meeting certain environmental standards. Read more: Stuttgart to introduce diesel driving ban in 2019 Prosecutors said in a statement that "There is a suspicion that the engines are equipped with a so-called shutdown device" that makes the emissions appear lower than they actually are. The Japanese automobile manufacturer is also part of a business alliance with Renault and Nissan. Read more: Carlos Ghosn claims put a spotlight on Japan's legal system The raids are the latest instance in an ongoing set of scandals — dubbed Dieselgate — over emissions cheating. In 2015, Volkswagen admittedto installing software in 11 million Diesel-fuelled vehicles to pass emissions tests. The devices allowed the vehicles to emit up to 40 times the legal limit of nitrogen oxide. The probe is a first for Mitsubishi with regard to emissions cheating. However, in 2016, the carmaker admitted to publishing exaggerated mileage ratings for car models that it sold in Japan. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3QVcM Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here. lc/ng (AFP, dpa, Reuters)