Indonesian rescue teams flew aid to remote districts around Jakarta on Saturday — as the government announced that the death toll had risen to at least 53. National Disaster Mitigation Agency spokesman Agus Wibowo said the fatalities included those who had drowned or been electrocuted. Read more: Indonesia files WTO lawsuit against EU over palm oil biofuels The situation worsened when rivers broke their banks early Wednesday after torrential rains that began on New Year's Eve unleashed flash flooding and landslides. Stranded amid floods Tens of thousands of people in the capital were unable to return to their homes, with fears growing about the possibility of more heavy rainfall. More than 170,000 people sought refuge in shelters across Jakarta's massive urban conglomeration, after whole neighborhoods were submerged. Further south, in the Lebak municipality, police and military personnel dropped boxes of noodles and other supplies by helicopter into isolated districts. Many areas have been made inaccessible by road after bridges were destroyed. As many people in Jakarta were celebrating the New Year, heavy rains brought flooding and landslides, killing over 20 people and leaving the city paralyzed. Many were forced to flee their homes in the dark or bunker in on roofs and upper floors. "The floods hit without warning," said one survivor. The monsoon rains and rising rivers submerged an estimated 169 neighborhoods, forcing an estimated 62,000 residents to evacuate their homes. Jakarta is home to 10 million people, but 30 million live in the greater metropolitan area. Residents were forced to use inflatables to evacuate children and salvage belongings. Floodwaters rose an estimated 2.5 meters (8 feet) in some areas. The floods forced authorities to cut off electricity and water, and paralyzed transport networks. Jakarta Governor Anies Baswedan told reporters that 120,000 rescue personnel have been deployed to assist in the evacuation and mobile water pumps are being installed to bring down the water levels. As of Thursday, over 31,000 people are being housed in shelters, according to National Disaster Mitigation Agency spokesman Agus Wibowo. Transport networks in the city have come to a halt as roads and public transportation infrastructure remain underwater. The high waters flooded the runway at Jakarta's Halim Perdanakusumah airport, stranding some 19,000 passengers. The airport opened later in the day. With much of the floodwater still lingering in the city, authorities do not yet know the full extent of the damage. Overdevelopment, trash and poor flood-mitigation infrastructure have contributed to the flooding. The rainy season is expected to continue until April. With more rain in the forecast, residents are bracing for more flooding. Many took to social media to post photos and updates and to mark themselves safe from the flooding. "It's tough to get supplies in there," police chief Tomsi Tohir told the AFP news agency. "There are about a dozen places hit by landslides." Read more: Deforestation triggering natural calamities in Indonesia Cloud seeding The government on Friday said it would begin cloud seeding — inducing rain by using chemicals sprayed from planes — to the west of Jakarta. It was hoped this would prevent approaching rainfall from exacerbating the situation by making it fall earlier before reaching the capital region. Jakarta's numerous infrastructure shortcomings, including bad drainage and runaway overdevelopment, are thought to have worsened the situation in the capital itself. Indonesian President Joko Widodo announced in August a plan to move the country's capital to Borneo, an idea that some environmentalists fear will exacerbate deforestation. rc/stb (dpa, AP, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.