The German Health Ministry confirmed late on Tuesday that three further cases of the new dangerous strain of coronavirus have been discovered in Bavaria, increasing the total number of patients in Germany to four. The three new patients were "connected" to the first found in Germany, which had been verified on Monday. Health officials said that the first person had contracted the disease from a Chinese colleague who had visited the area for a company workshop a week ago. Because the incubation period is believed to be unusually long — at up to two weeks — it is possible that the colleague had no symptoms at the time. "There were a total of around 40 employees who have been determined to have been in contact with the [Chinese] woman. Those affected will be tested on Wednesday as a precaution." German firm takes precautionary measures The company in question was named as Webasto, which develops motor vehicle products, and is based near the Bavarian town of Starnberg. The business side effects of the virus were beginning to manifest themselves with Webasto saying late Tuesday it was temporarily closing its headquarters due to the disease spreading among its employees. The first patient was considered to be in a "medically good state," officials said, adding that the risk of infection for people in Bavaria remained low. The Bavarian case is the first known example outside of China of the infection spreading between people who are not closely related. Read more: Coronavirus: Everything you need to know First discovered in the city of Wuhan, China, earlier in January, the new strain of the pneumonia-like virus is believed to have originated in the city's animal market. At least 106 people have died in China and infected 4,500 others. About 50 cases have been recorded outside of China, in South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, Nepal, Vietnam, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, the US, France and Australia. Many countries, including Germany, have instituted health checks for airplane passengers arriving from China. Based in Stockdorf in the district of Starnberg, Webasto is to be shuttered until Sunday, the firm said in a statement. Employees at the headquarters have been instructed not to travel in Germany or abroad. Japan and US carry out evacuations Meanwhile, various countries have been carrying out missions to return nationals to their homelands from Wuhan. Japan sent a first plane to collect its citizens early Wednesday and was due to arrive at Tokyo's Haneda airport later in the morning with about 200 people on board, the Kyodo news agency reported. An American charter flight is also set to leave the city on Wednesday, heading for the Los Angeles area. The plane will carry staffers from the local US consulate, as well as other US citizens, who will be asked to pay for their flights. "These travelers will be carefully screened and monitored to protect their health, as well as the health and safety of their fellow Americans," State Department spokeswoman Morgan Ortagus said. The European Union will fly citizens home aboard two French planes later this week, and South Korea likewise. The US and several other countries, most recently Australia, have urged their citizens to "reconsider" all trips planned to China. Canada said 126 of its citizens live in the Wuhan area and is said to be monitoring its options for getting them home.  es, jsi/msh (dpa, AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.