A car plowed into a group of 17 young tourists overnight near a popular ski resort town in northern Italy on Sunday, killing at least six people. Italian police said they believed those killed were German holidaymakers belonging to a tour group in the autonomous province of South Tyrol, which is a largely German-speaking region. Several others were injured, four of them critically. The tourists, all aged between 20 and 25, were standing along the side of a road when the vehicle struck. A police spokesperson said the driver of the car, 27, failed a breath test for alcohol and has been arrested on suspicion of vehicular manslaughter. Authorities said they do not believe the crash was intentional and an investigation is underway. Mourners left candles and flowers at the scene of the crash late Sunday morning. Lutago, or Luttach in German, is a small town near the Austrian border that is popular for skiing and other winter sports. Around 160 rescuers responded to the incident. Last weekend, three Germans were killed in an avalanche in South Tyrol. Five people were under investigation for the deadly avalanche accident. shs/stb (dpa, rainews.it, Ansa) Those looking to take a rest — and maybe a seated selfie — at the Spanish Steps in Rome are in for a surprise. In early August, city authorities imposed a ban sitting on the site, saying that people linger too long and block the steps for others. Police blow whistles to urge tourists to stand up and can impose fines ranging from €160 ($180) to €400 ($450) for not obeying authorities. Pictures like this one can be taken daily in Venice, where massive cruise ships loom over the canals as they dock in the city center. Locals have protested against the liners, citing concerns about air pollution and environmental damage to marine life. The Italian government is considering diverting some cruise ships, although critics say that won't solve the problem of overcrowding. From its beaches to its trendy cities, Spain has been trying to get a grip on its tourist hotspots. In cities like Barcelona, the rise in visitors has led to a drop in the number of local residents who have been pushed out by rising food and rent costs. Barcelona's mayor has threatened to halt cruise ships and limit the expansion of its airport. Dubrovnik has attracted hordes of tourists since it was used to film the hit television series "Game of Thrones" — but 2019 has been bigger than ever. Some 700,000 people have already visited the city, 20% higher than in 2018, Croatia's Tourism Ministry said. The city has taken measures to curb the number of cruise ships allowed to dock in its harbor and plans to reduce it even more in 2020. Dubbed the "Venice of the Netherlands," the village of Giethoorn is visited by an estimated 350,000 Chinese tourists every year. Overcrowding has led the Dutch tourist board to stop actively trying to attract more tourists. In Amsterdam, officials passed measures to halt new hotels and souvenir shops. Tourists must also pay a fine if they're caught drinking or urinating in public. France was the top tourist destination in the world last year, with nearly 90 million foreign visitors in 2018. In early July, Paris officials said they plan to bar tour buses from driving through the city center to better control traffic. Restrictions on double-decker buses, like the ones used on hop-on, hop-off tours, are due to go into effect later in 2019. The Austrian capital saw a record-breaking number of tourists visit in the first half of 2019. While the city's tourism office has praised the development, they recognize that more needs to be done to manage the crowds — especially those who arrive in boats on the Danube and who clog the city during rush-hour. Officials are also considering time limits on Airbnb rentals. The picturesque Austrian village of Hallstatt attracts over 1 million tourists every year. It became so popular in China that a replica was built in 2012. Although fame has boosted the economy, many in the 800-person village are dissatisfied with the flood of visitors. Starting in 2020, tourist buses will only be allowed to enter Hallstatt if they purchase a ticket for a time slot in advance. Budapest ranks as one of Europe's worst cities for "overtourism." Locals expressed anger by the noise and rowdy behavior of tourists who flock to the Hungarian capital's so-called party district. Although a referendum to curb pub hours failed, the city has pledged to address residents' concerns. The city also banned beer bikes from the city center — although they operate in other areas. Copenhagen has enacted several measures to maintain its title as the happiest city in the world. To better manage its tourists, the city has tried to spread visitors throughout the city, created quiet zones for residents in neighborhoods and halted new bars and restaurants from opening in areas where several already exist. Over 80,000 rooms and homes in the British capital are currently listed on the short-term rental site Airbnb, according to the BBC. The figure has skyrocketed over the past few years, making it harder for locals to find affordable places to live. London implemented a limit on property owners, allowing them to rent out entire homes for only 90-nights per year. Author: Rebecca Staudenmaier Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.