Concert Hour is your ticket to the German classical music festival scene. From the Schwetzingen Festival to the Bayreuth Festival, the Bachfest in Leipzig and the Beethovenfest in Bonn, we have the picks of the season: two hours of music renewed regularly. Along with host Rick Fulker, the musicians themselves are on hand to give their insights into the events and the music. This time, we visit one of Germany's best known festivals, the Bachfest in Leipzig. With over 150 events, it attracts 73,000 visitors from all over the world. Most of the overseas visitors come from the US, Japan and Australia. It's hard to evade Johann Sebastian Bach in Leipzig — nor would one want to. A visit to St. Thomas' church, where Bach worked for 27 long years, is definitely on the tourist agenda, and many come to lay a flower on his grave in the altar space. A concert with the St. Thomas boy choir is usually also part of the package. Part one: Bach didn't have to go to France or any other country to pick up the newest musical styles of his time because many major European composers came to the Duke's court in Weimar when Bach worked there — years before he moved to Leipzig. And even if they didn't, he'd copy out their music if it was published and thus absorb those various styles into his own. These are the things that made Bach a truly international composer. There was even something international about his official title in Weimar, Hofcompositeur Bach, a mix of German and French meaning "Court Composer Bach." Hofcompositeur Bach was the motto of the most recent Bachfest in Leipzig. In the 18th century, German royalty had its eye on Versailles, residence of the French kings. Anything in fashion at Versailles was certain to be imitated, including the music, and Bach did it too. Showcasing French-influenced music by Bach was the aim of the most recent Bachfest. Gotthold Schwarz is the 17th successor to Johann Sebastian Bach in the position of Cantor of St. Thomas' Johann Sebastian Bach Marc-Antoine Charpentier Te Deum in D Major, H. 146 performed by: Ulrich Böhme, organ Gesine Adler, soprano Cornelia Samuelis, soprano Elvira Bill, alto Patrick Grahl, tenor Tobias Berndt, bass  Choir of St. Thomas' Leipzig Freiburg Baroque Orchestra  Gotthold Schwarz, conductor Recorded by Central German Radio (MDR) in St. Thomas' Church, Leipzig on June 14, 2019  Leipzig is not the only Bach city; his home town of Eisenach also has a Bach museum Part two: This hour we've got something very unusual: a harpsichord duel. It pits harpsichordist Ton Koopman against his former student, Andreas Staier. The idea was to stage a historical event, a competition between two keyboard players that was scheduled to happen but never did: Listing to Bach practice, Marchand got cold feet and skipped town. "Our mouth shall be filled with laughter" is the name of a cantata by Johann Sebastian Bach that is often performed during the Christmas season. It's a work that Bachfest director Michael Maul says transforms this venue, St. Thomas' Church Leipzig, into a hall in Versailles. "Bach composed this cantata for the Christmas season here in Leipzig," Maul explained to DW. "But we're familiar with it in a different version, as the fourth orchestral suite. In his former position in Cöthen, Bach may have written it in as dinnerside music — and later, in Lepizig, he integrated a Bible text into the music and recycled it into this Christmas cantata. How he managed to do that, I'll never know: taking a complex polyphonic score and working a Protestant hymn tune into it, thus combining the glamour and the pomp of Versailles with a Lutheran church service." In Leipzig, he image of Bach adorns all sorts of everyday things Louis Marchand  Harpsichord Suite No. 1   Suite No. 1 for harpsichord  (excerpts) Johann Sebastian Bach French Suite No. 5 (excerpts)         Fugue for two harpsichords from the concerto in C Major, BWV 1061a Johann Jakob Froberger Toccata in D Minor from Libro secondo performed by:  Ton Koopman, harpsichord Andreas Staier, harpsichord Johann Sebastian Bach Unser Mund sei voll Lachens (Our mouth shall be filled with laughter), cantata, BWV 110 performed by:  Gesine Adler, soprano  Elvira Bill, alto Patrick Grahl, tenor Tobias Berndt, bass  Choir of St. Thomas' Leipzig Freiburg Baroque Orchestra  Gotthold Schwarz, conductor Recorded by Central German Radio (MDR) in St. Thomas' Church, Leipzig on June 14, 2019 