Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei led the main weekly Muslim prayers in Tehran on Friday for the first time since 2012. It comes as the country grapples with the aftermath of the killing of its top general in a US airstrike and widespread protests at the downing of a Ukrainian passenger jet by the Iranian military. What Khamenei said: Thousands of people attended the Friday prayers, occasionally interrupting Khamenei by chanting "Death to America!" and "God is greatest!" In his sermon, Khamenei said: Iranian authorities admitted to downing a Ukrainian civil aircraft when launching ballistic missiles at US targets in Iraq Khamenei lashes out at Europe The Iranian leader said Western countries were too weak to "bring Iranians to their knees." He said that Britain, France and Germany, who tried this week to bring Iran back into compliance with the 2015 nuclear agreement, were "contemptible" governments and "servants" of the US. "We should not forget that both Germany and France supported Iraq in the war against us," Khamenei said, saying that the European countries had shown themselves to be unreliable partners. 'Bitter accident' Khamenei called the downing of a Ukraine International Airlines jet a "bitter accident that burned through our heart." He added that enemies used the crash as an opportunity to question the Islamic Republic and its forces. "But some tried to... portray it in a way to forget the great martyrdom and sacrifice" of Soleimani, the leader said. "Our enemies were as happy about the plane crash as we were sad ... happy that they found something to question the Guards, the armed forces, the system." Ukrainian Foreign Minister Vadym Prystaiko said Friday that Ukraine wants Iran to issue a formal document admitting its guilt. Read more: Opinion: We need transparency from Tehran on Ukrainian place crash in Iran. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3WMWP Trump hits back In a series of tweets, US President Donald Trump hit back, urging Khamenei to "be very careful with his words." Trump said: A picture published by the media office of the Iraqi military's joint operations forces on their official Facebook page shows a destroyed vehicle on fire following a US strike on January 3, 2020 on Baghdad international airport road Why is leading Friday prayers significant? Khamenei has held the country's top office since 1989 and has the final say on all major decisions. Friday prayers in the capital are often used when the leadership wants to impart a particular message. The last time Khamenei led Friday prayers at the Mosalla Mosque in the Iranian capital was on the 33rd anniversary of the Islamic revolution in 2012. In his sermon then, he called Israel a "cancerous tumor" and promised to support anyone opposing the country. Khamenei had also warned against any US strikes on Iran over its nuclear program, saying the US would be destroyed "10 times over." Read more: Pro-Iranian militias: How autonomous are they? Tumultuous month for Iran Iran's Revolutionary Guard accidentally shot down a Ukrainian International Airlines passenger plane on January 8, mistaking it for an American counterattack. The plane was downed shortly after it took off from Tehran's main international airport, killing all 176 people on board, mostly Iranians and Canadians. Iranian authorities concealed their role in the downing of the jet for three days, initially attributing the crash to a mechanical problem. After Tehran announced its responsibility in the crash, angry protesters took to the streets, with security forces firing tear gas and live ammunition at demonstrators. The coffin of slain general Qassem Soleimani was passed among the crowd in Tehran, allowing them a chance to touch the sarcophagus. The remains of the general, killed by US airstrikes in Baghdad, were flown back to Tehran on Monday. Crowds chanted "Death to America!" and "Revenge! Revenge!" Supreme leader of Iran Ayatollah Ali Khamenei burst into tears while he led a prayer over the coffin of the general. Khameini called for "severe revenge" on the US. Soleimani's replacement as Quds leader, Esmail Qaani, right, also showed emotion on the same day as he called for a complete withdrawal of US troops from the region. While Iranian state TV placed the number of mourners at over one million, outside estimates believe that the number was actually less. Nevertheless, this is largest funeral Iran has seen since that of the Islamic Republic's founder, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, in 1989. Soleimani was a popular military leader whose death has been met by open grief by many within the Iranian military. An unnamed Quds general lay and wept over his coffin. Soleimani spearheaded military operations in the area. The general's daughter, Zeinab Soleimani, spoke during the funeral procession, calling for the US to remove all troops from Iran. She said a "dark day" was to come for the US. "Crazy Trump, don't think that everything is over with my father's martyrdom," she said. Soleimani was a national hero to many Iranians, even those who did not consider themselves devoted followers of Iran's clerical rulers. Soleimani's death has united Iranian people across the religious and political spectrum. Crowds with Iranian flags gather in front of a large image of Soleimani being awarded the Order of Zolfaghar, the highest military honor in Iran. Soleimani has been heralded as a military "hero." Streets were brought to a standstill because of the number of mourners. Author: Elliot Douglas mvb/sms (AFP, AP) DW sends out a daily selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here