After impressing between the sticks at Schalke, a highly regarded goalkeeper makes a controversial move to Bayern Munich. A scenario that once applied to Manuel Neuer now also fits Alexander Nübel, the 23-year-old whose signing Bayern announced over the weekend. The senior man sees a key difference though: "I didn't move to a team where I would possibly be the No. 2," said Neuer on Monday. "I always wanted to play, especially when I was young. That was my decision. Early on, had I been second choice, I had the option to move to another club. I didn't do that. Alex Nübel is starting for Schalke and he is a good goalkeeper. I don't know if I would have made the same decision." Nübel is to join the Bundesliga champions at the end of the season, by which time his forerunner will be 34 and entering the final year of his contract, leading many observers to conclude that Neuer's position as No. 1 may not be as secure as he suggests. Speaking at Bayern's always-controversial winter training camp in Qatar, Neuer accepted that the free transfer was a smart move and that Nübel was a "very good keeper, the future is his," before adding with a smirk "at some point." Alexander Nübel is to move to Bayern in July Such a single-minded and ambitious player was never likely to take the imminent arrival of a challenger for his spot lightly and Neuer admitted that any decision to extend his contract past its current expiry at the end of next season had not yet been made. "The club has always shown me appreciation," Neuer said. "So far we haven't been able to extend the contract. Although I'm not under any time pressure, I've indicated which factors are important to me for the future." One of those is who will be the coach at Bayern in the longer term, with Neuer joining the chorus of player support for interim coach Hansi Flick. But, while the Germany shot-stopper said Nübel's arrival would be "irrelevant for my contract extension" he made it very clear that being the main man is important to him. "I can't put myself in his shoes. But I've been a player who always wanted to play, to always be No. 1. For me as Manuel Neuer, I always wanted to play." Neuer's primacy has never really been in any serious doubt at Bayern since he joined the club in 2011 and quickly established himself as the long-term successor to Oliver Kahn, who assumed his new position in the club's management structure on Monday. While Nübel's arrival will likely pose some questions of Neuer, he won't be the only one. Current backup stopper Sven Ulreich's future in Bavaria also looks bleak. The 31-year-old was largely impressive in deputizing when Neuer was injured for much of the 2017-18 season but a high-profile blunder against Real Madrid in the Champions League semifinal was a significant blot on his copybook. With highly regarded 19-year-old youth product Christian Früchtl also on Bayern's books, Ulreich may prove to be the first casualty of Nübel's arrival. He may not be the last either. The Bayer Leverkusen youth product looks set to move back to his native Germany in this window after 18 months in Ligue Un. The fullback, 22, has struggled with gametime at Monaco but his talent is not in doubt. RB Leipzig are believed to be the frontrunners, though Bayern Munich reportedly looked in to buying Henrichs in January. The commanding French center back is reportedly a target for Arsenal and their new head coach Mikel Arteta. Upamecano, 21, reads the game well, is strong in the air and has been a key member of a defense that’s become one of the Bundesliga’s meanest. But the Red Bulls are top of the table and not short of cash, he wouldn’t come cheap. Expected to leave in preseason, Boateng has instead played a little more than expected after the departure of Mats Hummels and injury to Niklas Süle. But he has been increasingly marginalized since Hansi Flick took over from Niko Kovac. At 31, and with high wages, Bayern may be happy to take a chance with their squad depth and, once again, Arsenal are his reported destination. The Spanish striker’s future is the subject of speculation despite a Bundesliga goal ratio better than a goal a game since joining, initially on loan, from Barcelona at the start of 2018-19. The high profile arrival of Erling Haaland and Dortmund’s frustration with Alcacer’s injury issues may see the poacher drop down the pecking order. Atletico Madrid are monitoring his situation. A regular for the Royal Blues over the last few years, Bentaleb had a difficult 2019. The Algerian midfielder was twice disciplined by the club at the end of last season, picked up a bad injury and has failed to convince new coach David Wagner of his value – the 25-year-old has yet to play a single minute this season. AC Milan were once interested but his suitors may be lower profile now. Still just 25, Can has already played for four major European clubs but a fifth could be just round the corner if reports in Germany are to be believed. The German international is yet to complete 90 minutes for the Italian champions this season and newly-wealthy Hertha Berlin are said to be interested with previous target Granit Xhaka being re-integrated at Arsenal. Dortmund may also be tempted. Another player struggling for minutes, Draxler has also fallen off Joachim Löw's radar since moving to the French capital. With Euro 2020 six months away, the 26-year-old would have plenty of options should he wish to move back to his homeland. Hertha have again been linked but Draxler's talents may warrant a more prestigious stage. Yet another player linked with Hertha in recent weeks, Dahoud has struggled to find his feet at the Westfalenstadion after impressing with Borussia Mönchengladbach. The central midfielder has only played more than an hour twice all season, though the departure of Julian Weigl could offer him more opportunities. Author: Matt Pearson