Chinese officials on Friday expanded a mass quarantine effort and transport restrictions in the outbreak's epicenter, Wuhan, to at least 13 cities. A total of around 41 million people are currently affected by the lockdown. Read more: Everything you need to know about the new coronavirus Authorities in Hubei, the province where Wuhan is located, said on Friday that they have sought greater financial support from the central government. Chinese officials have scrambled to contain the virus, which has hit during the high-travel season of the Chinese Lunar New Year. Officials at the World Health Organization (WHO), who are closely monitoring the situation, have warned of a potential public health emergency. Airports around the world have begun screening passengers for the virus. All public transport in Wuhan is suspended as people are being checked for the coronavirus In spite of a rising death toll in China, the WHO said it was "too early" to declare an official international health emergency. The Chinese government on Friday said there had been at least 26 fatalities and more than 800 cases of the virus so far. Authorities were also examining 1,072 suspected cases. Read more: Chinese New Year: Entering the Year of the Rat amid the coronavirus crisis Race against time State news agency Xinhua reported Friday that China is rushing to construct a new hospital in only 10 days to treat the rising number of patients infected with the virus. The new Wuhan city hospital is expected to be in use by February 3 and will have a capacity of 1,000 beds spread. Constructions began after reports claimed a shortage of hospital beds as the virus spread. "To address the insufficiency of existing medical resources," Wuhan authorities said in a Friday notice, the city is building a new facility modeled after the Xiaotangshan SARS hospital in Beijing. Read more: What constitutes an international public health emergency? Affected countries A student in Nepal tested positive for the virus after coming home from chine, Nepali authorities said on Friday. Both Japan and South Korea confirmed on Friday their second cases of the virus. Those infected with the virus had all spent time in Wuhan. Singapore on Friday announced two more confirmed cases of the coronavirus, bringing the total to three. All three had come from Wuhan. The city of Macau, a popular gambling destination for mainland tourists, has two confirmed cases. One was a businesswoman from Wuhan who arrived in Macau by high-speed rail on Sunday, via the neighboring city of Zhuhai. Two people have been tested positive in Hong Kong. Both had visited Wuhan in recent days. Taiwan confirmed its first case on January 22, a Taiwanese woman living in Wuhan who returned to the island with symptoms including fever, coughing and a sore throat. Thailand confirmed five cases so far — three Chinese nationals from Wuhan and a Thai woman who returned from Wuhan this month. On Friday, a Wuhan woman holidaying in Thailand became the fifth coronavirus case in the country. Two Chinese citizens in Vietnam have tested positive for the virus, its Health Ministry announced Thursday. Health officials in Texas on Thursday said they were testing a university student for the newly discovered coronavirus, raising fears of a global health emergency. Tourist sites shut down Lunar New Year celebrations will take place over the weekend. China has cancelled a range of festivities such as temple fairs to prevent the further spread of the disease. Temporary closures of Beijing's Forbidden City, Shanghai's Disneyland and a section of the Great Wall were also announced to prevent more outbreaks. It has not been proven that the face masks seen above can effectively protect you against viral infections. That said, these masks are probably able to catch some germs before they reach your mouth or nose. More importantly, they prevent people from touching their mouth or nose (which most people do instinctually). If you are already sick, such masks may keep you from infecting others. In its list of recommendations onhow to protect yourself from getting infected, the World Health Organisation does not mention face masks. At the top is frequently cleaning your hands. The WHO recommends alcohol-based hand rub, like the ones seen here in a hospital. The more simple day-to-day solution is water and soap, if you've got some handy. But make sure to wash your hands thoroughly. So here's what the doctors recommend: When coughing and sneezing, cover your mouth and nose with your flexed elbow. Or use tissue — but then immediately throw that tissue away and wash your hands. With your shirt or sweater, however, no, you don't need to throw them away. Do wash them frequently, though, or take them to the dry cleaner's. Another recommendation that may not work for everybody: Avoid close contact with anyone who has fever and cough! If you have to tend to sick people, make doubly sure to take additional protective measures. If you have fever, cough and difficulty breathing, seek medical care early. Avoid public places so you don't infect others. And also, explain to your doctor where you've previously traveled. When visiting live markets in areas currently experiencing cases of the novel coronavirus, avoid direct unprotected contact with live animals. That includes any surfaces that are in contact with animals as well. Cook meat thoroughly. The consumption of raw, or undercooked, animal products should be avoided. Raw meat, milk or animal organs should be handled with care to avoid cross-contamination with uncooked foods. These are good food safety practices and help prevent the spread of illnesses. Author: Fabian Schmidt dj,mvb, cmb/ng (Reuters, AFP, AP) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.