When we embrace each other, a warm feeling rises within us. We take up more space in the room and inter-individual boundaries disappear - if only for a few seconds. A wanted, pleasant hug can give us feelings of trust, affection, security, and comfort. Handshakes, caresses, hugs, greeting kisses: such touches are essential for humans. But due to the measures taken to contain the corona pandemic, we have to do without some physical contact. Many of us only realized how important these touches are to us after we started receiving less of them. "Our species, Homo sapiens, belongs to the class of nesting mammals," explains haptics researcher and psychology professor Martin Grunwald. He heads the Haptic Research Laboratory at the Paul-Flechsig-Institute for Brain Research at the University of Leipzig. "The first stages of life for our species can only be good for us if there is sufficient physical contact, sufficient bodily stimulation in our species. No infant can develop well if it is not also sufficiently physically stimulated. Touch stimuli lead to neural growth and to physical growth." The importance of social contact and touch stimuli for growth is also shown in a recent study of Romanian institutionalized children, published  in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS). These children had smaller brains than comparison groups due to severe neglect and lack of mental stimulation. Without touch, humans and other mammals cannot develop well, says psychologist Martin Grunwald Touch stimuli are also "quite important for stress regulation," says Grunwald. There is also another "side effect of body interaction" and that is "that it ultimately serves to reassure us that we are not alone in this world." In this respect, touch has a central social function, he said. "This physical level of our communication also serves to develop, build, and maintain good and stable relationships, quite apart from any sexual activity and far from any sexual motivations." At the same time, not all touch is the same. According to haptics professor Grunwald, many conditions must be met for physical contact to have a positive effect on us: "It must be made at the right time by the right person with the right strength on the right part of the body." And what happens in our brain when a person close to us touches us pleasantly? "At the perceptual level, these appropriate levels of touch stimuli are transformed into positive emotions," Grunwald says. Our brain reacts to these touches by activating numerous brain areas, he adds. As a result of the brain being activated, the body releases certain neurotransmitters and hormones that, among other things, put the entire body in a different state. "On the neuropsychological/neurobiological level, our brain transforms the touch stimuli into relaxation stimuli, that is, a relaxation response." Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3jGT6 To contain corona, we now refrain from many opportunities for physical contact. This restraint can have an effect on us humans. However, not everyone finds the prohibition of contact, also known as "social distancing," equally difficult. How much this impacts us depends on how strong our need for physical touch is. There are people who have a strong need for physical touch and there are people who prefer to go without it. Some people simply don't like to be touched or embraced by anyone. "If you have a strong need for physical touch or are otherwise accustomed to it as part of your daily life and now have to do without it, then it naturally leads to an increased stress response, and you have to manage your needs accordingly," the haptics researcher believes. "Any form of self-control and restraint naturally leads to an increase in stressful emotions. Anxiety is definitely generated, because the calming effect of familiar, regular physical touch is also missing." This must be taken seriously, he says: "Depending on the individual need, the lack of physical interaction can also produce clinically relevant symptoms." Which age group is hit hardest by the lack of touch and physical contact? What if we just hugged ourselves? Wouldn’t that have the same effect? "A clear no," the psychologist states. "If we could produce the same effects via self-touch, then we wouldn't be, or wouldn't need to be, social creatures at all," Grunwald says. Physical touch, he adds, is part of interpersonal communication. Grunwald emphasizes: "Self-hugging does not lead to a relaxation reaction. The feelings of closeness we experience when we engage in physical touch with others is not the same feeling we experience when we hug ourselves." Since the COVID-19 pandemic, we have become accustomed to avoiding physical contact with acquaintances and friends, going shopping in masks, and smiling at and greeting neighbors behind a mask from a distance. But although humans are creatures of habit, it will not get to the point where we become permanently accustomed to this emergency behavior and forget to be social beings once the danger has passed. Grunwald is confident that "physical touch with others is part of our way of life as Homo sapiens and that's basically in our biological DNA or in our social DNA," said Grunwald. "It's shaped by our experiences as children, as infants. We will find our way back to these basic forms of communication." Physical touch is essential for life In this process, he says, the younger generation in particular will lead the way. "They will also fight for and conquer the sphere of physical communication again. Because they still have their whole lives ahead of them," the psychologist says. "They have not yet chosen their partners or careers: their overall personality still has yet to mature, and that requires intensive communication with socially diverse people." All of this could not be completed via online meetings or video conferences. "Those also require aspects of body language." So don't panic: We're not going to mutate into some kind of online beings. "Our basic biological makeup will take care of that," the researcher reassures us. Not all age groups are equally affected by forgoing touch and physical contact. Adolescents and young adults are particularly hard hit by corona conditions, he said. "This group is eager to communicate, to get to know other people, to explore new places, and that involves being in contact with other people," Grunwald points out. "To now ban this group to screens and laptops, of course, that's tough." Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3ll8N The younger people are, the harder it is for them to do without, he said. "Older people definitely know that. But young people haven't had that experience of going without. As a result, the [mental stress] from corona is significantly greater for younger people than older people." But how could one temporarily compensate for the lack of touch in corona times despite all this? Does hugging trees help, for instance, as the Icelandic Forest Service recommends? Perhaps it would be better for people who live alone and suffer from social touch deprivation to care for animals from a shelter by the hour, the scientist recommends. Grunwald: "When we interact with other mammals, both sides benefit" "Research clearly shows when our species interacts with other mammals, both sides benefit," says Grunwald, who recorded his findings in the book "Homo Hapticus." Another tip from him: organize professional physiotherapy massages for yourself. Professional cuddlers who offer professional touch stimuli in compliance with the relevant regulations would be Professor Grunwald's final recommendation. Is hugging trees a substitute for lack of touch? At the same time, he is sure that mankind will survive this time as well: "It has already survived a lot of things: Plague, cholera, world wars. The Berlin Wall didn't last forever, and we've also survived Donald Trump. So in that sense, there will also be a time after corona."  Our skin is often the starting point for how we perceive situations and interact with one another. Researchers have found that people can detect certain emotions, like love, anger, gratitude and disgust, from touch. Regular positive touch has been shown to reduce aggression and increase pro-social behavior. It also helps us form and maintain emotional bonds in relationships. Touch, or tactile communication, can help us build trust and cooperation. One study even found that professional basketball players and teams who had more physical interaction early in the season, like high fives and team huddles, performed better in later games. Hugging is a sign of support that can reduce stress. They can also help deter inner turmoil after conflict. One study showed that people who received a hug on a day when a conflict had taken place were found to be in better moods afterwards. Hugs have also been shown to reduce the likelihood of catching a common cold, due to their stress-buffering properties. Warm contact between partners, like holding hands or cuddling, can contribute to better cardiovascular health and can lower one's reactivity to stress. This is because that positive physical sign of support slows your heart rate, decreases the stress hormone cortisol and lowers your blood pressure. Couples can even sync their heart rates and brain waves just by touching. Researchers at Duke University Medical Center found that full-body massage relieved pain and increased mobility in patients with arthritis in their knees. Therapeutic touch has also been shown to decrease pain and increase the quality of life for fibromyalgia patients. Not just those getting a massage see benefits, either: Giving a massage also offers positive improvements to personal well-being. Massage has also led to weight gain in preterm babies by engaging part of their nervous system. This improves digestion and releases hormones required for absorbing food. Skin-to-skin touch helps release oxytocin, the hormone related to mother-infant attachment, and decreases cortisol, the stress hormone. It may also have a pain-relieving effect for babies undergoing minor medical procedures. You don't need another person to receive the benefits of touch, though. Self-massage can have some of the same effects of regular massage. The health benefits are stronger when more pressure is applied, as opposed to a lighter touch. Yoga and other forms of exercise, with physical contact between your body and the ground (or weights), can produce similar stress-relieving effects, too. Support in the form of holding a partner's hand when they're experiencing physical pain may be beneficial for both the recipient and the giver. Pain is actually diminished for the affected partner when touched. This contact can also help people with low self-esteem to eliminate self doubt. Today, work is being done to create sensory-enabled prosthetics so that amputees can get the same health benefits from touch. Psychological well-being has been shown to increase for those who used such prosthetics. Other researchers are also working on developing electronic skin technology that can feel hard surfaces, soft fabrics or sensations like heat. Author: Sam Baker