US President-elect Joe Biden on Tuesday announced his pick for the role of defense secretary will be the 67-year-old retired General Lloyd Austin. "Throughout his lifetime of dedicated service — and in the many hours we've spent together in the White House Situation Room and with our troops overseas — General Austin has demonstrated exemplary leadership, character, and command," Biden said in a statement. Austin's successful nomination would make him the first Black leader of the Pentagon and would be in line with Biden's promise of a diverse cabinet. Read more: Opinion: Joe Biden's Cabinet picks — cause for optimism The career military officer will likely face opposition in Congress as many believe there should be a clear line between civilian and military leadership in the Pentagon. Biden defended his nomination in a tweet, saying that he trusted the retired general and knows "how he reacts under pressure." Austin won out against former favorite Michele Flournoy, who many had expected to become the first woman to serve as US defense secretary. While it is normal for defense secretaries to have served in the military, only two others have been career officers, including James Mattis who served under outgoing President Donald Trump. In order for the nomination to be successful, Austin would require a waiver from Congress due to law aimed at preserving the civilian nature of the position. Former members of the military are required to have been out of service for seven years before assuming the role of defense secretary, but Austin retired in 2016. The retired general spent 41 years serving in the military and led US and coalition troops in Iraq during former President Barack Obama's first term — when Joe Biden was vice president. In 2012 he became the first-ever Black vice chief of staff of the US Army, the second-highest position. He then took command of the US Central Command and was in charge of the US's role in pushing Islamic State militants out of Syria and Iraq. He was also involved in the initial invasion of Iraq in 2003 serving as assistant commander of the 3rd Infantry Division. He subsequently oversaw the withdrawal of US troops in 2011, a decision which he disagreed with. Blinken is a longtime confidant of President-elect Joe Biden. He's served under two Democratic presidents as well as a key aide on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. He also served as a deputy national security adviser and deputy secretary of state in the second Obama administration, when Biden was vice president. The former secretary of state will become Biden's special presidential envoy for climate. Kerry served as a senator from Massachusetts from 1983 to 2013 before taking the top foreign policy role in the second Obama administration. Kerry signed the Paris Climate Agreement for the United States in 2015 — Donald Trump pulled the US out of the accord two years later. Thomas-Greenfield served in high-level State Department positions under Obama from 2013 to 2017. She led US policy in sub-Saharan African during the Ebola outbreak. Biden plans to restore the UN ambassador role to a White House Cabinet position. The Cuban-American headed Citizenship and Immigration Services under Obama. He led the implementation of the DACA program that allowed so-called Dreamers, who were brought to the US illegally as children, to stay in the country. If confirmed, he would become the first immigrant and Hispanic to head the Department of Homeland Security. Sullivan served as Biden's national security adviser from 2013 to 2014 while he was vice president. He also served as Hillary Clinton's deputy when she was Secretary of State. He later served as her chief foreign policy adviser during her unsuccessful presidential bid in 2016. Haines was the first woman to serve as deputy director of the CIA, a role she held from 2013 to 2015. She succeeded Antony Blinken as deputy national security adviser when he moved over to the state department in 2015. If confirmed, she would be the first woman to head the US intelligence community. Author: Davis VanOpdorp Biden has promised to make his presidential cabinet diverse and reflect the US population. But he faces the hurdle of getting his chosen candidates approved by the Senate, currently controlled by the Republican party. He has already chosen women for the roles of US ambassador to the UN — Linda Thomas-Greenfield — and head of the CIA — Avril Haines — as well as picking former Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen for the position of treasury secretary. The latter would be the first-ever female head of the Treasury Department in the history of the US. ab/rt (AP, Reuters) 