Turkish journalist Can Dundar has been sentenced to more than 27 years in prison for allegedly supporting terrorism and "military or political espionage." A court in Istanbul on Wednesday sentenced Dundar to 18 years and nine months for obtaining state secrets for the purpose of political or military espionage. The court also sentenced him to an additional eight years and nine months for supporting an armed terrorist organization without being a member. Currently in exile in Germany, the former editor-in-chief of the Turkish opposition newspaper Cumhuriyet was tried in absentia. Speaking with DW, Dundar said he wasn't surprised by the verdict: "They wanted to punish me because of this true story and at the same time try to intimidate other journalists in Turkey who dare touch that kind of sensitive issue." "The judicial system is almost totally under the control of Erdogan's government, so there's no hope for the appeal courts," he said. "But we will go to the European Court of Human Rights, and I hope that they will certify that this is not an act of terrorism but an act of journalism." Judges at Istanbul's Caglayan courthouse issued the verdict despite the absence of the defense team. Dundar's lawyers said they would not attend the final hearing, slamming the charges as politically motivated. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/1JihI "We do not want to be part of a practice to legitimize a previously decided, political verdict," the lawyers said in a written statement on Tuesday ahead of the hearing. The court delayed its verdict earlier this month after Dundar's lawyers asked for the judges to be replaced to ensure a fair trial. The court rejected the request. Dundar fled to Germany in 2016 to escape legal charges after being convicted of espionage for publishing a story about Turkish arms shipments to Syrian rebels in 2015. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan had warned Dundar would "pay a heavy price" for the Cumhuriyet report exposing Turkey's intelligence agency while he was leading the newspaper. During his exile in Germany, Dundar was given 15 days to return to Turkey but he opted not to. The court declared Dundar a fugitive and ordered the seizure of his assets in Turkey including four properties in Ankara, Istanbul and Mugla as well as bank accounts in his name. Turkish authorities also confiscated his wife's passport in September 2016. In a statement following the court's decision, Dundar rebuked the Turkish government's "unlawful, brutal decision" and noted that the case ended up bringing more attention to his reporting. "I can only thank them for making the story known worldwide," he said. German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas called the verdict "a hard blow against independent journalistic work in Turkey." "Journalism is not a crime, but an indispensable service to society — especially when it looks critically at those in power," he tweeted. The German Journalists' Association (DJV)  denounced the verdict as an "act of barbarism." "Can Dundar has investigated, reported and exposed — that is good journalism, not a crime," DJV chairman Frank Überall said. "In free countries, there are journalist awards for this, but in Turkey, there are dungeons," he added, calling on German authorities to prevent Dundar from being "kidnapped" to Turkey. Christian Mihr, director of Reporters Without Borders Germany (RSF) tweeted that the international nonprofit group "criticizes the judgment in the strongest possible terms!" "Like many other lawsuits against media workers, the trial was a farce!" he added. In October, the European Union warned Ankara that it was eroding democratic values and said Turkey's chances of ever joining the bloc were evaporating. Dundar lauded the German public and German media whom he said have "been really supportive" of his plight, but he claims the German government itself is hesitant to "annoy Erdogan and his government," citing concerns over refugee policy, trade and arms sales. Asked what he thought politicians in Berlin should do regarding relations with Turkey, Dundar told DW: "They should work in solidarity with the forces of democratic struggle in Turkey. There's a huge public will, the people's resistance and the opposition are allied right now and they [the German government] should be more in touch with them. But unfortunately, they are mostly dealing with the Erdogan government and trying not to see that other Turkey." js,mvb/rt (dpa, AFP, Reuters) The 30-year-old TV presenter had recently hosted investigative journalists working on alleged corruption involving European Union funds. She was brutally murdered in the northern Bulgarian town of Ruse in October 2018. The 60-year-old author, Washington Post columnist and former editor-in-chief of Al Arab News Channel was last seen walking into the Saudi consulate in Istanbul in October 2018 to get papers to verify his divorce. His fiancee waited outside for 11 hours, and she says he never came out. Khashoggi had previously said he believed the Saudi leadership wanted to kill him. TV news reporter Samim Faramarz was killed in September 2018 with his cameraman Ramiz Ahmadi when they were reporting from the scene of an explosion in the west of Kabul. The car bomb went off just meters from where they were just finishing a live report. Afghanistan remains the deadliest place in the world to be a journalist. After Afghanistan and Syria, Mexico is the most dangerous nation for journalists. There were 14 journalists killed in 2017, and at least 10 more lost their lives in 2018. Mario Gomez, a 35-year-old correspondent, was shot dead by armed men as he left his home in Chiapas in September 2018. He had reportedly received death threats after investigating corruption among state officials. Reuters journalists Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo had reported the killing of 10 Rohingya Muslim villagers. They were arrested in December 2017 after being invited to meet police for dinner in Yangon. In September 2018, after 39 court appearances and 265 days in detention, they were jailed for seven years for breaching the 1923 Official Secrets Act. A major issue in Brazil's election campaign was corruption. Radio journalist Marlon de Carvalho Araujo focused on reporting graft, and he wrote on corruption involving officials at various levels of the Bahia regional administration. In August 2018, four gunmen burst into his home in the early hours and shot him dead. Kashmir journalist Shujaat Bukhari was shot dead outside his newspaper office in Srinagar in June 2018. A contributor to DW, he advocated a peaceful resolution to the conflict between India and Pakistan over the mountainous region. Editor Wendi Winters, her assistant Robert Hiaasen, writer Gerald Fischman, reporter John McNamara and sales assistant Rebecca Smith died when a gunman shot through the glass door into their office in June 2018. The man, who had filed a defamation lawsuit against the paper, was arrested at the scene and charged with their murders. An ex-police officer was named as the killer of investigative reporter Jan Kuciak and his partner Martina Kusnirova in February 2018. The murders sparked mass protests and led to the resignation of the prime minister. Kuciak had been investigating ties between government officials and the Italian mafia. Daphne Caruana Galizia, an investigative journalist who linked Maltese Prime Minister Joseph Muscat to the Panama Papers scandal, was killed when a bomb destroyed her car in October 2017. Author: Jane Mcintosh  