- Lewandowski leads Bayern to victory - Leverkusen the real deal - Dortmund give Terzic first win - Six-goal thriller in Frankfurt - Late drama in Stuttgart A brace from Robert Lewandowski got Bayern out of a bind against Wolfsburg, who took a fifth-minute lead. The Pole scored just before and soon after the break, and with Manuel Neuer in sensational form late on Wolfsburg's undefeated run came to an end. Cologne's return to some sort of form might have left them hopeful in their clash against local rivals Leverkusen. Instead, they were handed a humiliating defeat by the league leaders. Moussa Diaby scored one and assisted another in a 4-0 demolition. It wasn't pretty but Edin Terzic won't care. A Marco Reus penalty rebound was enough for Dortmund to sneak past Werder Bremen in an unspectacular Tuesday night game. Youssoufa Moukoko made his first start, but was unable to find the back of the net. It was a tough night for Dortmund, but they got the result they needed In a year where the football schedule has been particularly relentless, Gladbach's European adventures looked to be what cost them in Frankfurt. At least it should have done. A sumptuous Lars Stindl free kick gave Gladbach the lead, but then Andre Silva helped Frankfurt race away to a 3-1 lead that looked to end the contest. But after David Abraham was sent off with nine minutes to go, Gladbach woke up again and Stindl scored two in injury time to cap a crazy finish. Union's first trip to Stuttgart since beating them in the relegation playoff in May 2019 was full of drama. The visitors took a two-goal lead, thanks to a Marvin Friedrich header from a Christopher Trimmel cross, just like in May 2019. Liverpool loanee Taiwo Awoniyi added a second. Pellegrino Matarazzo responded and was rewarded as sub Sasa Kalajdzic scored the game's third header. With five minutes to go and after a lengthy VAR check, Kalajdzic's equalizer was given. The final score was 2-2, just like in May 2019. If his stunning free kick or his injury-time penalty weren't enough of a reason to appreciate Lars Stindl, his 95th minute header to seal Gladbach's comeback in Frankfurt certainly was. A hat trick for a player who really can make the difference. Lars Stindl was the matchwinner for Gladbach in Frankfurt The 17-year-old joined Leverkusen from Cologne and against his former side, he showed them what a mistake it was to let him go. The man touted as Kai Havertz's natural successor scored a delightful fourth and once again showed talent beyond his years. Leverkusen celebrate after Florian Wirtz scores again It probably has to be the man who was thrust into the big job just two days after Dortmund were embarrassed by Stuttgart. In such a short space of time it's unlikely Terzic was able to cange much, but to do just enough to help the players deliver is all that matters. Edin Terzic won his first game in charge of Borussia Dortmund