On Friday morning at 9 a.m., David Aruquipa and Guido Montano were back at the civil registry office in La Paz. But this time, unlike their many previous visits, the 48-year-old economist and the 46-year-old lawyer didn't leave empty-handed. On their way out the door, they carried in their hands a very important document: proof that their registered partnership had been legally recognized. On Friday, Aruquipa and Montano become the first homosexual couple in Bolivia to earn the marriage equality they've been fighting for for years. Behind them, a grueling battle full of hostility, in a country in which the Catholic and Protestant churches still have a major influence. But their fight has also taken place alongside growing support for the LGBT+ community, especially in the capital, La Paz. "Of course, we're happy to be the first to pave the way. But at the same time that brings a lot of responsibility," said Aruquipa. With the couple inundated with interview requests, it's not easy to reach him these days. Perhaps the clearest expression of their relief is shown by the change to their Facebook status, which now reads: "casado," or married. Aruquipa and Montano celebrated their legal marriage with friends, but will wait until 2021 for a big party But the two men know all too well that the fight for marriage equality is just starting in Bolivia. "What we have accomplished is a first step toward a day when the entirety of Bolivia's diversity will be reflected," said Aruquipa — just as in other Latin American countries like Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Uruguay and some parts of Mexico. Aruquipa and Montano met at an educational institution in La Paz back in 2008, and have been a couple ever since. But what made them want to go to court and sue for the right to get married so many years later? Perhaps it was because Aruquipa once needed an emergency operation and Montano was not allowed to authorize it. They had to wait an entire day before a family member made it to the hospital to sign the relevant paperwork. Or maybe it was because Montano had trouble flying to Mexico when authorities refused to accept his visa application, due to the couple's shared bank account. Or because the two are not allowed to share a family health care plan. "Those are just a few of the stories," said Aruquipa. "But as a homosexual, especially as a gay couple, you are just used to facing daily discrimination and being bombarded with hateful messages on social media." Resistance to their relationship is especially strident in far-right and evangelical Christian circles. Evangelical pastor Luis Aruquipa — no relation to David — has condemned the decision to allow them to marry. He argues that a couple must consist of a man and a woman. "The hostility would have been far worse if we weren't two adults with steady jobs and good incomes," said David Aruquipa. In October 2018, the couple went to the civil registry office and applied for a civil partnership. Then the legal tug-of-war began — an emotional roller coaster. Initially, Bolivian authorities rejected the application, pointing to Article 63 of the Bolivian constitution: Marriage can only be between a heterosexual couple. Aruquipa and Montano refused to accept the decision and took their case to Bolivia's Plurinational Constitutional Court. They argued that Bolivia's constitution violated international human rights standards, citing an Inter-American Court of Human Rights ruling that found that it was "the duty of states to recognize and protect the familial relationships of same-sex couples." As international law supersedes national law, the high court justices last week rejected the registrar's argument. That forced the registry office in La Paz to recognize Aruquipa and Montano's relationship — a first in Bolivian history. The Netherlands was the first country in the world to permit same-sex marriages after the Dutch parliament voted for legalization in 2000. The mayor of Amsterdam, Job Cohen, wedded the first four same-sex couples at midnight on April 1, 2001 when the legislation came into effect. The new law also allowed same-sex couples to adopt children. The Netherlands' neighbor, Belgium, followed the Dutch lead and legalized same-sex marriage two years later. The law gave same-sex partners many of the rights of their heterosexual counterparts. But unlike the Dutch, the Belgians did not initially allow same-sex couples to adopt children. The Belgian parliament passed a bill granting them that right three years later. Argentina became the first Latin American country to legalize same-sex marriages when its Senate voted 33 to 27 in favor of it in July 2010. Argentina thereby became the tenth country in the world to permit gay and lesbian marriages. The South American country was not the only one to do so in 2010. Earlier in the year, Portugal and Iceland also passed same-sex marriage legislation. Denmark's parliament overwhelmingly voted in favor of legalization in June 2012. The small Scandinavian country had made headlines before when it was the first country in the world to recognize civil partnerships for gay and lesbian couples in 1989. Same-sex couples had also enjoyed the right to adopt children since 2009. New Zealand became the 15th country worldwide and the first Asia-Pacific country to allow gay and lesbian marriages in 2013. The first couples were married on August 19. Lynley Bendall (left) and Ally Wanik (right) were among them when they exchanged vows on board an Air New Zealand flight from Queenstown to Auckland. France legalized same-sex marriage the same year. Ireland made headlines in May 2015 when it became the first country in the world to legalize same-sex marriage through a referendum. Thousands of people celebrated in the streets of Dublin as the results came in showing almost two-thirds of voters opting for the measure. The White House was alight in the colors of the rainbow flag on June 26, 2015. Earlier, the US Supreme Court ruled 5 to 4 that the constitution guaranteed marriage equality, a verdict that paved the way for same-sex couples to be married across the country. The decision came 12 years after the Supreme Court ruled that laws criminalizing gay sex were unconstitutional. Germany became the fifteenth European country to legalize gay and lesbian marriages in June 30, 2017. The bill passed by 393 to 226 in the Bundestag, with four abstentions. German Chancellor Angela Merkel voted against the bill, but paved the way for its passage when she said her party would be allowed to vote freely on the measure only days before the vote took place. Following a postal survey which showed the majority of Australians were in favor of same-sex marriage, the country's parliament passed a law to legalize it in December 2017. As couples in Australia have to give authorities one month's notice of their nuptials, many of the first weddings took place just after midnight on January 9, 2018 - including that of Craig Burns and Luke Sullivan, pictured. In May 2019, the island state became the first country in Asia to legalize same-sex marriage. The government survived an attempt by conservative opposition to water down the bill. Gay couples are able to offically register their marriage from May 24 onwards. President Tsai Ing-wen called it "a big step towards true equality." The Andean state's top court ruled 5-4 to allow two gay couples to marry in June. The decision followed a ruling from the Inter-American Court on Human Rights affirming that countries should allow same-sex couples the right to marry. Author: Alexander Pearson Even now, a day after the momentous event, the couple can hardly believe it. For years, authorities just brushed them aside, even made fun of them. "It was like a broken record: Article 63 … Article 63 …," recalls Aruquipa. "Administrators are supposed to find solutions to problems and help you make use of your rights as a citizen. But they just kept saying: 'That's the way it's written in the constitution. Period.'" On Friday morning at nine it will be official. Other couples have vowed to follow their lead. "It was torturous but we always promised ourselves we wouldn't give up," said Aruquipa. When asked about the wedding reception, he says it can wait until sometime next year. "It's not the right time to do it, with the coronavirus situation like it is," he said. "But we will definitely celebrate with a big party next year." This article has been translated from German.  