Germany is at risk of a shortage of intensive care unit (ICU) beds  if the coronavirus caseload continues to rise, according to Uwe Janssens, an intensive care doctor and a member of the German Association of Critical Care and Emergency Medicine (DIVI). In terms of ICU capacity, Janssens told DW that  the situation was "quite critical"  in some hospitals across the country. "We have areas where the ICU capacity just has left 5 to 10% open beds. That's not enough to cover the broad range of severely ill patients," he said. Currently, hospitals were still able to help people, Jansens said. But if infections continued to rise, "it won't work anymore." He also raised concerns about Germany's elderly who have particularly high infection and mortality rates: "Even when they come on the intensive care units over the age of 70 or 80, the mortality in intensive care units is above 80%." Janssens said medical professionals in ICUs across Germany were under intense pressure. "The burden is very high, the pressure is very high. The psychological and physical stress for the health care workers is immense." Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3mSSC Germany has added 28,438 new coronavirus infections, along with 496 deaths, over the past 24 hours, according to the latest figures released by the Robert Koch Institute Saturday. The number is down slightly from Friday's record measure of 29,875 cases in 24 hours. The seven-day index in Germany is currently at 163 cases per 100,000 people. Health authorities are aiming for 50 cases per 100,000 before restrictions on public life can be relaxed. The World Health Organization (WHO) has appealed to people to carefully think about their Christmas plans and New Year's celebrations. "The festive season is a time to relax and celebrate but... celebration can very quickly turn to sadness if we fail to take the right precautions," WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told a news conference. "Please consider your plans carefully. If you live in an area with high transmission, please take every precaution to keep yourselves and others safe... That could be the best gift you could give, the gift of health," Tedros said, warning that the global death rate from COVID-19 had accelerated by 60% in the past six weeks. France will allow ski resorts to reopen on January 7 if the COVID-19 situation allows. "January 7 is a possibility, as long as conditions allow this," French junior foreign affairs minister Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne said on France's BFM television channel. Spain is also set to open several ski stations from next week. The privately owned Baqueira Beret in the Pyrenees announced it would open on Monday, though it would limit the number of skiers to maintain social distancing rules. Ski workers in the Aragon region are planning a protest on Saturday to urge their regional government to reopen slopes to save their jobs. German carmaker Volkswagen intends to close one of its plants due to coronavirus infections among staff members. "The measure takes effect from the night shift Monday to Tuesday," a Volkswagen spokesman said of the plant in the northern city of Braunschweig (sometimes called Brunswick in English). The duration of the shutdown has not been disclosed. Thousands of people are expected to be affected. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3mVvt The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on Friday authorized the BioNTech-Pfizer vaccine for use in the United States. The approval will kick off a mass-inoculation campaign as the country reels under surging coronavirus case numbers and fatalities. "I am authorizing the emergency use of Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine for the prevention of COVID-19," FDA chief scientist Denise Hinton wrote in a letter to a Pfizer executive. The first shots are expected to go to health care workers and elderly people living in nursing homes. A Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) advisory committee is expected to recommend who will be first in line. Shortly after the authorization was announced, US President Donald Trump hailed it as a "medical miracle," adding that the vaccine is "very safe." "We have made sure that this vaccine will be free for all Americans," Trump said in a video published on social media. "We have already begun shipping the vaccine to every state and zip code in the country. The first vaccine will be administered in less than 24 hours," Trump said. US Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar told broadcaster ABC News on Friday, ahead of the authorization, that the Trump administration was working with Pfizer on distribution and "we could be seeing people getting vaccinated Monday, Tuesday of next week."  The US Senate has unanimously approved a one-week extension of federal funding to avoid a government shutdown and to allow more time for separate negotiations on COVID-19 relief. President  Donald Trump is expected to sign the extension into law. Congress now will focus on passing a $1.4 trillion (roughly €1.16 trillion) bill to continue federal operations until September 2021. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3g1MJ mvb/msh (Reuters, AFP, dpa)