The death rate among hospitalized coronavirus patients is almost three times higher than those with the flu, new research has found. Researchers compared French national data for 89,530 patients hospitalized with COVID-19 in March and April this year with 45,819 patients hospitalized with seasonal influenza between December 2018 and the end of February 2019. Some 16.9% of hospitalized COVID-19 patients died during the period of study. This compares to a death rate of 5.8% among those with cases of influenza severe enough to require care in a hospital. Researchers found that more patients with COVID-19 needed intensive care — 16.3% compared with 10.8% for influenza— while the average stay in intensive care was nearly twice as long at 15 days compared to eight days. The research, published in the journal the Lancet Respiratory Medicine, contradicts US President Donald Trump and Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro who respectively likened the deadly virus to the flu and "a measly cold." The study also had a positive finding for children: Far fewer under-18s were hospitalized with COVID-19 than with flu — 1.4% of those infected compared to 19.5%. Here's DW's overview of other major developments around the world. A panel of advisers to the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on Thursday gave the green light to Moderna Inc's coronavirus vaccine on an emergency basis. The step makes it likely that the vaccine candidate will receive approval from the US regulator as early as Friday. The Moderna jab would be the second vaccine allowed in a Western country after experts issued emergency approval for the BioNTech-Pfizer vaccine. Columbia's daily confirmed coronavirus cases reached their highest level since mid-August on Thursday. The spike is linked to celebrations to mark the feast of the Immaculate Conception — known locally as Night of the Candles — when families gather to put candles in their windows or outside their homes. The Andean country recorded 12,196 new cases on Thursday, according to health ministry data. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3msiY The Philippines could secure between four to 25 million doses of COVID-19 vaccines from Moderna Inc and Arcturus Therapeutics Holdings Inc, the Southeast Asia country's ambassador to Washington said on Friday. The Southeast Asian nation plans to buy doses from China's Sinovac Biotech and AstraZeneca but missed out on purchasing the BioNTech-Pfizer vaccine. In Japan, Drugmaker Pfizer Inc with BioNTech said it had applied for approval in Japan of its vaccine. The Japanese government has a supply deal with Pfizer for 120 million vaccine doses of the vaccine. But, Japan's Chief Cabinet Secretary Katsunobu Kato told a news conference prior to Pfizer's announcement that the vaccine's effectiveness and safety would be priorities. Those aged over 80 or in care homes are likely to be the first to receive the coronavirus vaccine in Germany In Germany, the Robert Koch Institute, the country's disease monitoring and prevention agency, on Friday reported 33,777 new confirmed cases of coronavirus and 813 deaths. Friday's number of new confirmed cases includes some 3,500 for a German state that failed to report its results on Thursday. Health Minister Jens Spahn has signed an order determining which groups in the country will be first in line to receive the coronavirus vaccine. He also presented a list of the groups that will be the first to be eligible for the jab when the vaccination program gets underway. The start is planned for December 27. On Thursday, a special vaccination commission published official recommendations for the vaccination program. Due to limited doses, those aged over 80 years and nursing home residents will be vaccinated first — they are considered most at risk from the coronavirus. With the sale of fireworks banned during the pandemic, the western city of Cologne has called on residents to put on a different kind of display by flicking their light switches on and off for five minutes from midnight to mark the start of 2021. People are also being urged to stay at home and to refrain from setting off any fireworks they may already have. A study from France shows that spending time in a restaurant or bar increases the risk of contracting the coronavirus, researchers from the Pasteur Institute in Paris announced Thursday. Socializing with guests for dinner also increases the likelihood of infection. The study confirms assumptions that eating together carries a higher risk than other activities such as using public transportation or going shopping. The researchers reached these conclusions after surveying around 3,400 people who had contracted the virus and nearly 1,700 people who remained virus-free. Austria is to go into lockdown for at third time, starting after Christmas, media say. The lockdown will reportedly last until January 18. Several outlets reported that the lockdown would be longer for those who fail to get tested for the coronavirus while people who test negative will be freed from restrictions. A second wave of coronavirus infections is hitting West and Central Africa: Nigeria, Niger, Mauritania, Burkina Faso, Mali, Togo and Democratic Republic of Congo are all at or near record levels of infection, data compiled by news agency Reuters shows. Infections in Senegal are also rising fast. Rwanda registered almost as many new cases in December with 722 as the entirety recorded since the beginning of infection at 797 cases. Experts are warning it could be worse than the first wave as the weather cools. French President Emmanuel Macron tested positive for the virus on December 17. Following the diagnosis, he canceled all of his upcoming trips, including one to Lebanon, and said he would self-isolate for seven days. French Prime Minsiter Jean Castex was also set to isolate after coming into contact with Macron. Polish President Andrzej Duda tested positive for coronavirus in October, as the country was facing surge in new infections. Duda, an ally of the ruling nationalist Law and Justice Party, was "feeling fine" at the time of the diagnosis. The day before officials announced his infection, the number of new cases in the country of 38 million hit a daily record of more than 13,600. Donald Trump, who once said COVID-19 tests were "beautiful," tested positive for the coronavirus, along with his wife Melania, soon after senior aide Hope Hicks also contracted the virus. The infection came less than a month before November's presidential elections in the US. Prime Minister of Eswatini Ambrose Dlamini died at the age of 52 after contracting coronavirus. He was the first sitting leader to succumb to the virus. Former French President Valery Giscard d'Estaing died aged 94 on December 2 after contracting COVID-19. During his rule, he legalized abortion and brought the country high-speed trains. He also promoted cooperation among European nations, especially in tandem with the former West Germany, forging a strong rapport with Chancellor Helmut Schmidt. The 83-year-old former Italian premier tested positive for the virus and is believed to be asymptomatic, his party announced on September 2. Two of Berlusconi's children as well as his 30-year-old girlfriend are also COVID-19 positive. The ex-premier tested positive after vacationing along Sardinia's coastline, where Italy's rich and famous have been known to flaunt mask policies. Brazil's president, who has repeatedly downplayed the severity of the pandemic, contracted the virus in July. He was criticized for ignoring the safety measures recommended by health experts both before and after his diagnosis, including shaking hands and hugging supporters in crowds. His wife and sons also tested positive. In late March, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson came down with a coronavirus infection that landed him in the hospital for several days. Johnson spent a week at a hospital in London and three nights in intensive care where he was given oxygen and observed around the clock. He was released in mid-April and credited hospital staff with saving his life. Michel Barnier, the EU's chief Brexit negotiator, tested positive for the virus in March. The top Brussels official sent out a tweet in English as well as French saying he was doing well and "in good spirits." He added: "I am following all the necessary instructions, as is my team." Belarus's embattled President Lukashenko told military officials on July 28 that he had survived an "asymptomatic" COVID-19 infection "on his feet," days before his contentious re-election. The claim met skepticism given its timing. He initially dismissed fears about the pandemic as a "psychosis" and went as far as suggesting cures such as drinking vodka, taking saunas and playing ice hockey. Bolivia's interim president Jeanine Anez announced on July 10 that she had the virus. "I feel well, I feel strong, I am going to keep working remotely from my isolation, and I want to thank all the Bolivians who are working to help us in this health crisis," the leader tweeted at the time. The president of Honduras spent time being treated at a military hospital after falling ill with coronavirus in June. He received specialized care including receiving medicines via an intravenous drip. His wife and two presidential aids also tested positive. Hernandez left hospital in early July after his symptoms improved. The Guatemalan president told local radio on September 18 that he had tested positive for the virus. The 64-year-old, who has multiple sclerosis and uses canes to walk, said his symptoms were mild. The government said Giammattei plans on monitoring his health and continuing official duties from isolation. Algerian President Abdelmadjid Tebboune was flown to Germany hospital for treatment after contracting the virus. The 74-year-old looked haggard and spent in his public appearance 47 days after testing positive. Luis Abinader, the newly elected president of the Dominican Republic, tested positive during his election campaign. He recovered before the July election and spent one week in isolation. German Health Minister Jens Spahn, who has led Germany's fight against the pandemic, tested positive for the coronavirus in October and had "cold-like symptoms." He went into immediate isolation and soon recovered. Despite a couple of self-isolation scares for Angela Merkel and other ministers, Spahn remains Germany's highest-profile political case to date. This gallery does not include all major politicians who have contracted the coronavirus. Others, such as Bulgarian Prime Minister Boyko Borissov, Moldovan Prime Minister Ion Chicu, Armenian Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan, and Croatian Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, are just some of the other top politicians who have contracted the virus. Author: Rebecca Staudenmaier, Alistair Walsh kmm/sms (AP,AFP,dpa, Reuters) 