The search for treasures from the past is a real national sport for people in the UK. Some spend hours roaming meadows and fields with their metal detectors in search of buried treasure, coins or historical weapons. During the first lockdown from March to May, however, treasure hunting with metal detectors was completely prohibited. There are also strict regulations for treasure hunting during the nations' current lockdown. So, for now, treasure hunters have turned to searching in their own gardens and homes. And they have been astonishing successful. The British Museum says, 47,000 finds have been registered in the past year. Among the finds are some truly remarkable discoveries, such as a Tudor treasure, named after an important noble family from the 16th century. These precious gold and silver coins from the Tudor period were discovered while weeding It includes 63 gold coins and one silver coin, dating from the late 15th to early 16th centuries. A gardener in New Forest, in southern England, discovered the treasure by chance while weeding. The Tudor treasure also includes four valuable coins from the reign of Henry VIII, which unusually bear the initials of his wives, Catherine of Aragon, Anne Boleyn and Jane Seymour. The British Museum says it is still unknown how the treasure, which was already extremely precious at the time, came to be in the garden. Henry VIII of England as depicted by German painter, Hans Holbein the Younger It is also completely unclear how 50 solid gold, South African Krugerrand coins, minted during the apartheid regime, came to be buried in a garden in Milton Keynes, north-west of London. This Krugerrand gold treasure was carefully hidden, but by whom? Also curious is a medieval lead alloy seal matrix found in Dursley, Gloucestershire. The seal shows a robed bishop, holding a crozier, also known as a bishop's staff, in his left hand. The Latin inscription identifies him as David, Bishop of St. Andrews. Did someone try to make this presumably forged bishop's seal disappear? However, the find is apparently a forgery that was probably used to authenticate copied documents. Genuine, high-quality seals were not made of lead but of a copper alloy, or even silver. So, it's possible someone had wanted to get rid of the fake seal in a hurry. Treasure hunters in Old Basing, Hampshire, meanwhile, have found a Roman furniture fitting made of copper alloy. It dates from around 43-200 AD and is decorated with an amazingly well-preserved face of the ancient Greek god, Oceanus. This amazingly well-preserved Oceanus fitting was also found in a garden Seaweed frames the bearded face. Small dolphins swim under each ear down to Oceanus' chin, while serpentine creatures rest on either side of the god's temples. The find is unique, as no such maritime motif has yet been found on any chest, door, or household object from this period. Treasure hunting is very popular in the UK. It's even the setting for a popular TV series called Detectorists. But there are very clear rules in the UK about what counts as "treasure" and what treasure hunters have to do with their finds. Treasure hunters are required by law to report what they find to their local authorities. They then organize proper archaeological preservation to ensure that any historical context at the site of discovery is recorded. A Treasure Valuation Committee decides what happens to the treasure A Treasure Valuation Committee then determines the value of the object and who is entitled to a share of the find and by how much. People who misappropriate treasure or trespass in order to get treasure are not entitled to any reward. And museums always have a right of first refusal on finds. For 2019 alone, the British Museum lists 81,602 public finds. That's an increase of more than 10,000 on the year 2018. All finds are made publicly available by the British Museum in its Portable Antiquities Scheme (PAS), an online database. The PAS database includes freely accessible information on more than 1.5 million objects. Archaeological finds do not belong on a living room shelf. Even small finds have often led to a much larger discoveries, or indeed entire archaeologically sites. That was the case with an Iron Age settlement, and a Roman scattered settlement, with associated burials in Kent, and an Anglo-Saxon burial ground in Lincolnshire. So, all archaeological finds have to be reported. Experts have to have a chance to assess each find, determine its historical context, and say whether it is archaeologically relevant. While the murder of the Russian Imperial Romanov family in 1918 is the stuff of infamy and legend, so too are the stories about their lost riches. A large part of the family's gold reserves were to be transported to safety over a frozen Lake Baikal in railway wagons. The story goes that the ice broke beneath the weight of the load. A century later the sunken treasure is still waiting to be found. When Prussian king Friedrich-Wilhelm gave his first gift to the Russian Tsar, Peter, in 1716, the so-called Amber Room, with its walls of amber and gold leaf, was quickly proclaimed the Eighth Wonder of the World. During World War II, Nazi soldiers looted the panels from the room in the Katharinen Palace packed it as booty in boxes. They were never found again — despite an ongoing treasure hunt. Perhaps the most famous myth of the Occident and the central object of Christianity, the Holy Grail has been missing for millennia. Jesus is said to have drunk from this cup during the Lord's Supper. According to medieval sources, the vessel has the power to impart eternal youth. Countless heroes have already tried to find it, including the knights around King Arthur's table. Rich in legend, with no limits to the fantasies about its greater meaning, this treasure is the fortune of the Knights Templar. They became rich not only through the Crusades, but also thanks to flourishing banking businesses. Probably out of greed, the King of France had the Order crushed in 1312. But the Knights' treasure has never been found. Around 1200, a heroic epic that was handed down orally finally landed on paper. Short version: the young warrior Siegfried acquired the fortune of a king and defeated a dragon before being murdered by his rival, Hagen — who lets his treasure sink into the Rhine. If this story of loyalty, betrayal and power really happened, why has the sunken treasure not yet been recovered from the river's depths? Author: Meike Krüger (ct)  