Germany's Robert Koch Institute reported a record 952 deaths on Wednesday, the country's highest daily death toll since the start of the coronavirus pandemic. The previous record, set less than one week ago, was 598. Germany also recorded 27,728 new infections as the country entered a stricter lockdown which closed schools and most shops nationwide. The total number of deaths from coronavirus-related problems reached 23,427. The total number of infections reported by the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) since the beginning of the pandemic stands at 1,379,238, with just over 1 million of those since registered as having recovered. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3mllg The number of new infections per 100,000 people in the last seven days stood at 179.8 as an average across Germany, according to the RKI. In some parts of the country, such as Saxony, the figure was much higher. The government aims to bring this number down to 50 — the level at which it says it's still possible to reliably trace the contacts of those infected. The infection rate was stable or slightly falling among younger age groups, but was still rising among older people who are more likely to suffer more serious problems in connection with the new virus. A ray of hope came in the form of an announcement from the EU vaccine regulator that the approval for the BioNTech-Pfizer vaccine will be brought ahead — following pressure from German Health Minister Jens Spahn — meaning that Germany could begin immunizing people as early as December 29. Bookstores may also remain partially open, depending on the state, for "click-and-collect" services. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3mlwX DW spoke with Janosch Dahmen, member of the German parliament for the Green Party and a licensed doctor, about the seriousness of the current coronavirus situation in Germany with a health care system that is "really under stress." Dahmen pointed out that while the country had got through the first wave of the pandemic with relative success, it had failed to take necessary measures during the summer in preparation, leading to the high numbers seen in recent weeks. "I think we were kind of a champion in the first wave in spring, but we [failed] in the summer to take … strict measures to protect vulnerable groups and to prepare for the winter season. And now we are behind and things are really serious, especially in care homes and places where elderly people live where the death rates are going up every day," he said. As for how to deal with the crisis and start to return to normalcy, Dahmen stated that "the vaccine is our only chance." ab/msh (dpa, AFP, Reuters) 