It sounds like a bad joke. Now, at a time when the future of the travel industry couldn't be more uncertain, the accommodation rental platform Airbnb hits the trading floor. Airbnb shares opened at $146 (€120.3) on the Nasdaq on Thursday, far above the initial public offering (IPO) price of $68 apiece. The stock hit a high of $165, rising 142.6% after the debut and making the San Francisco, California-based group worth more than $100 billion. The listing comes 10 months after the coronavirus pandemic upended travel and appears to have stunned even Airbnb Chief Execturive Officer Brian Chesky. "I don't know what else to say," Chesky said when told about the potential opening price in a Bloomberg Television interview. "I'm very humbled by it." Frankly, Airbnb could use the money. A glance at its nine-month balance sheet shows how much the company has suffered from the fallout of the coronavirus pandemic. Bookings fell by 39% in the last three quarters, reducing revenues by a third to $2.5 billion. Losses compared with the same quarters last year doubled to almost $700 million. To cushion the blow, Chesky has pulled out all the stops. As early as this spring, he cut marketing expenses by $1 billion, slashed executive salaries by half, and even waived his entire salary. Still, it wasn't enough. A good quarter of the workforce had to go, a total of 1,900 employees. Even a $2 billion capital injection from investors like Silver Lake didn't help. The company was left with a big deficit for the year as a whole. On Saturday (December 5) the first Aida cruise ship is scheduled to leave for a one-week trip to the Canary Islands. The ship, designed for 3300 passengers, will reportedly be 50 percent full. All passengers will need to provide a negative coronavirus test, no more than 72 hours old. On board, strict hygiene and distancing rules apply, and only guided shore excursions will be possible. Australian airline Qantas wants to introduce compulsory vaccination for intercontinental flights. "We will require international travelers to be vaccinated before we allow them on board," Qantas CEO Alan Joyce stated. The general terms and conditions would be adjusted accordingly. Whether this will also be a requirement for domestic flights has not yet been decided. Both cities will launch a 'travel bubble' on November 22, which will allow people to move quarantine free in each direction, their governments announced on Wednesday (Nov 11), in a rare piece of good news for the pandemic-battered tourism industry. A quota of 200 residents from each city will be able to travel on one daily bubble flight to the other. Machu Picchu, the ancient Inca city in the Peruvian Andes mountains, has reopened almost eight months after it was closed down due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Peruvian authorities organized an Inca ritual to mark the reopening. To allow for distancing, a maximum of 675 tourists per day are allowed to enter the old Inca city. That is less than a third of the normal number allowed. Rio de Janeiro's famous annual Carnival spectacle will not go ahead in February. Organizers said the spread of the coronavirus in Brazil made it impossible to safely hold parades which with some seven million people celebrating are a cultural mainstay, tourism magnet and, for many, a source of livelihood. Brazil has the second highest death rate in the world after the United States and India. To curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic the German government has announced though new measures to start Monday, November 2. The new restrictions effect the travel business as overnight stays in hotels for tourist purposes will be banned, entertainment facilities such as theaters and cinemas will be closed as will bars and restaurants, which will only be allowed to offer take out services. The city announced on Monday (Oct.26) that this decision had been made in view of the rapidly increasing number of coronavirus cases. The mayor explained that it was to be assumed that in the near future the Covid-19 traffic light in Nuremberg will change to dark red. "Against this background, we think it would be the wrong signal to go ahead with the annual Christkindlesmarkt Christmas market. The Canary Islands are no longer on the list of corona risk areas, the Robert Koch Institute announced on Thursday (Oct. 22). The abolition of the travel warning for the Canary Islands should above all please tour operators. For them, the islands off the coast of Africa with their year-round summer climate are one of the most important sources of hope for the winter season. Starting October 15, some of the Caribbean state have been reopened for international flights, with Havana a notable exception. Every visitor is tested for the coronavirus upon arrival, and a team of doctors is available in every hotel. The German vacation airline Condor plans to offer flights to Cuba's most popular tourist destination, the Varadero peninsula, starting October 31. Discussions are underway between Australia and low-risk countries across Asia and the Pacific to lift coronavirus travel restrictions, but the government has warned that travel to the US and Europe may not be an option until 2022. From Friday, Australia will open its international borders for the first time since March, allowing visitors from New Zealand to travel to the country quarantine-free. The cruise industry has decided to make coronavirus testing mandatory for all guests and crew members aboard cruise ships. The Cruise Lines International Association, the world’s largest such organization, announced on October 8 that passengers can only board ships by providing proof of a negative test result. All member shipping companies worldwide must now comply with this rule. In the wake of significant increases in coronavirus infection figures in Europe, Berlin has announced further EU countries as risk areas for travelers. In addition to Belgium and Iceland, additional areas of France and Great Britain, including all of Northern Ireland and Wales, were also classified as risk areas on September 30. Thailand is to receive its first foreign vacationers when a flight from China arrives next week, marking the gradual restart of a vital tourism sector battered by coronavirus travel curbs, a senior official said on Tuesday. The first flight will carry some 120 tourists from Guangzhou, flying directly to the resort island of Phuket. India's most famous building was closed for six months, but since Monday ( September 21) it can be visited again, under strict restrictions. Only 5000 online tickets will be issued per day. There are temperature checks at the entrance. Selfies are allowed, group photos are prohibited. The Taj Mahal is a UNESCO World Heritage Site and is normally visited by 8 million people every year. The Foreign Ministry has reacted to higher numbers of coronavirus infections on September 16 by issuing further travel warnings, including Vienna and Budapest. The province of North Holland with Amsterdam as well as South Holland with the cities of The Hague and Rotterdam are also affected. New risk areas were also identified in the Czech Republic, Romania, Croatia, France, and Switzerland. Because of the coronavirus pandemic, the tourism sector has suffered a loss of 460 billion dollars (388 billion euros) from January to June, the World Tourism Organization reported in Madrid. The loss of sales was five times higher than during the international financial and economic crisis of 2009, and the total number of tourists worldwide fell by 65 percent in the first half of the year. Germany’s Foreign Office has warned against unnecessary tourism to Czech capital, Prague, and the Swiss cantons Geneva and Vaud (Vaud). This also applies to the French Mediterranean island of Corsica, the French regions Auvergne-Rhones-Alpes (around Lyon), Nouvelle-Aquitaine (around Bordeaux) and Occitania (around Toulouse) as well as more Croatian Adriatic areas, such as the city of Dubrovnik. The German government has extended its travel warning for around 160 countries through September 30. The advisory applies to "third countries" — i.e. countries that are not members of the EU or associated with the Schengen area. From October 1st, a "differentiated system" will apply, in which individual travel and safety information will be given for each country. Australia has extended its travel restrictions for a further three months. The borders will remain closed for visitors from abroad until at least December 17. However, the government announced that domestic travel will soon be allowed for residents of the country. An exception will be the state of Victoria, with its metropolis Melbourne, for which a lockdown has been in place since early July. The German government has extended the travel warning for around 160 countries outside the European Union by two weeks until September 14. A spokeswoman for the German Foreign Ministry explained the move on Wednesday (Aug 26) with rising coronavirus infection rates. "The situation will not relax sufficiently by mid-September to be able to lift the worldwide travel warning," she said. With 2,500 instead of 6,000 passengers, the MSC Grandiosa left the port of Genoa on August 16. Stops on the seven-day voyage include Naples, Palermo and Valletta. Passengers and crew were tested for coronavirus before boarding, and body temperature is to be checked on a daily basis. Rival cruise company Costa will not be offering Mediterranean cruises again until September. Germany's health and interior ministries have agreed that all of Spain — apart from the Canary Islands — is now a high-risk area due to a surge in cases. Spain said it was closing night clubs across the country. Restaurants, bars and similar venues would need to close by 1 a. m. and would not be allowed to take in new guests after midnight. In the first six months of 2020, 59% fewer tourists came to Berlin than in the previous year. The Statistics Office said on August 10 that 2.7 million guests had visited Berlin, the lowest number since 2004. The slump was even worse for foreign tourists: two thirds stayed away. Since June, the figures have been recovering and are at 30 to 40% of the previous year. Anyone entering Germany from a high-risk area must take a coronavirus test from August 8, after an order by Health Minister Jens Spahn. Currently, many countries are classified as risk areas, including the United States and Brazil. In the European Union, Luxembourg, the Belgian region of Antwerp and the Spanish regions of Aragon, Catalonia and Navarre were risk areas as of early August. Norwegian cruise operator Hurtigruten has stopped all cruises on August 3 until further notice after an outbreak of the coronavirus on one of its ships. At least 40 passengers and crew members on the Roald Amundsen tested positive for COVID-19. Meanwhile, German cruise line Aida Cruises has also postponed its planned restart due to the lack of necessary permits. Despite coronavirus uncertainty, Nepal has reopened Mount Everest for the autumn trekking and climbing season. To boost the struggling tourism sector the government will permit international flights to land in the country from August 17. The Himalayan country shut its borders in March just ahead of the busy spring season when hundreds of mountaineers usually flock to the country. Concerned over a possible second wave of coronavirus, Amsterdam has requested that tourists not visit the Dutch capital on weekends. Potential day-trippers should come between Monday and Thursday, the city said on July 23. The tourist influx has swelled to such a degree that recommended social distancing of 1.5 meters between people is currently not possible in the city center. In order to manage tourist throngs amid the pandemic, Bavaria's Economy Minister Hubert Aiwanger is planning a live digital guiding system for visitors. Clogged streets, wild campers and overcrowding on hiking trails in the Alps — this brings popular regions such as Lake Tegernsee (photo) to their limits. The live update system is primarily intended to redirect day-trippers to less full areas. Holiday flights within Europe are on the move again, with passengers sitting close together. According to an opinion poll by the International Air Transport Association (IATA), 62% of those questioned are afraid of being infected by passengers in the next seat. This was identified by IATA as the main reason for the decline in willingness to travel, which is now only 45%. The Alhambra Castle in Granada in southern Spain opened its doors to tourists again on June 17. Initially, only 4,250 visitors were admitted at the same time — only half as many as usual. In addition, masks are mandatory. The Alhambra is considered the most important testimony to Arab architecture in Europe and is a World Heritage site. Entry regulations, masks, quarantine? The new EU overview website "reopen.europa.eu" provides information on the coronavirus rules of individual EU countries — and in 24 languages. Tourists can enter their destination country on the website and find out about regulations that apply there. So far, the site contains information on 27 EU countries and is to be continuously updated. Author: Andreas Kirchhoff, Susan Bonney-Cox Nevertheless, Airbnb went public on Thursday, bolstered by a recent bright spot. In the third quarter, the company surprisingly recorded a net profit of $219 million. "Our business rebounded faster than anyone expected." Indeed, Airbnb is weathering the crisis much better than the traditional hotel industry. "Airbnb has enjoyed an increase in demand during the pandemic from people seeking to get away from the city," strategy consultant Peter Cohan, who teaches at Babson College in Massachusetts, told DW. While sales of apartments in the world's metropolises have fallen significantly, the rural vacation homes market is booming. This is where Airbnb has the advantage over traditional hotel chains. Read more: Overtourism in Prague: Ideas for post-coronavirus times? Added to this are its comparatively low operating costs. To keep its own business running, Airbnb has little to pay other than the salary of its employees. The direct costs of vacant houses and apartments are borne exclusively by the property owners. Unlike other hotel and travel providers, Airbnb doesn't have to pay for vacant accommodations, half-full planes or docked cruise ships. Originally Barcelona's El Poble-Sec area was a poor neighborhood where factory-workers from the power plant used to live. It is an eclectic working-class district, home to many Dominicans. Due to the exorbitant rises in rent, local residents are being driven from their neighborhoods. As a result, community networks are disrupted, leaving locals with little sense of cohesion. Blai Street, the main street of El Poble-Sec, has been transformed into a hotspot for bars and cafes selling pinchos, a typical snack much like Tapas, to visitors and tourists. Rising rents are often directly linked to the presence of Airbnbs in the neighborhood. Barcelona's city council has stopped issuing new short-term rental licences, making Airbnb illegal for most of the landlords in the city. Gentrification leads to speculation and as a result prices and rents for housing have increased exorbitantly. Nowadays the average rent of an apartment is €950 euro ($1,056). The minimum wage is around €1,050. When local residents move out of the city, their places are taken over by more affluent residents, expats and businesses. Originally from Brazil, Catarina Jakovac has been living with her boyfriend in a El Poble-Sec apartment for six months. Both work as researchers at European universities. During the summer season especially, Barcelona is a mass-tourism destination. It's in the top 10 most visited destinations worldwide, accounting for 30 million tourists annually. Last year, neighbors joined forces and protested against the eviction of a man living here in the El Poble Sec neighborhood. An investor bought the property to convert it into upmarket designer apartments. Mohamed became homeless a few weeks ago. After separating from his wife he rented a room in El Poble Sec. However, with his €600 allowance, he can't afford rents over €220 However, lodgings in that neighborhood (and Barcelona in general) start at €300. Barcelona has suffered the consequences of mass tourism. As a result more and more initiatives are popping up to confront gentrification. Under Mayor Ada Colau, an initiative called "Barcelona Manifesto: Cities against Gentrification" has been developed to highlight the housing problems here and elsewhere in cities where gentrification is becoming a serious problem. Author: Sanne Derks (Barcelona) It's the basic concept of the sharing economy that is paying off for Airbnb now more than ever. "Access is more important than possessions." It's the mantra that made successes out of companies like ride-hailing service Uber or shared workspace provider WeWork. The idea was born out of the founders' own financial difficulties. "I never thought about being an entrepreneur," Chesky admitted in an interview with Linkedin founder Reid Hoffman a few years ago.To afford the high rent on his apartment in San Francisco, he came up with a simple idea. Together with his roommate, Airbnb co-founder Joe Gebbia, Chesky set up three air beds in his living room. He then rented the air beds at a low price to people participating in a design conference near their apartment. Chesky added breakfast free of charge, giving rise to the name Airbnb, short for "Airbed and Breakfast." Twelve years later, the company has become the largest private accommodation platform in the world. More than four million providers in 220 countries now regularly rent out their houses and apartments. Since 2017, tours and activities with locals can also be booked on the platform. For its services, Airbnb charges a commission of the sale, an impressive 15%. The company has generated more than $110 billion since it was founded. But the business model is regularly criticized. For years, the company has wrangled with cities over strict regulations for renting out private apartments on Airbnb. Some have accused the platform of causing housing shortages and rising rents in metropolises such as Barcelona, Paris and Berlin. More than two-thirds of the most popular city destinations found on Airbnb now restrict renting through the platform. In the stock exchange prospectus, the company warns of potential consequences. "The number and significance of these claims, disputes, and proceedings have increased and we expect they will continue to increase," it says. In large cities like New York, regulations and lawsuits could lead to long-term revenue losses. Send  Facebook   Twitter   reddit   EMail   Facebook Messenger Web   Whatsapp Web   Telegram   linkedin Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3V73a Still, company experts like Cohen are confident the IPO will be a success. "I do not think those regulatory issues will deter demand for Airbnb," says Cohan, himself a venture capitalist who invests in startups. Of course, the investment is risky, especially since the company has yet to prove its adaptability in the long term. But Airbnb is so well-known now even among private investors that backers will probably turn a blind eye in view of expected increase in sales. This article was adapted from German.