China is positioning itself as a formidable force in lunar exploration. Last year, it became the first spacefaring nation to land a spacecraft, Chang'e-4, on the far side of the moon.  And now it's successfully landed a new lunar spacecraft,  with the aim of bring rock and soil, known as regolith, back to Earth in about two weeks (December 15-17, 2020). Chang'e-5, a robotic lunar probe, launched on November 23. It's landed on the near side of the moon, in a region to the north of Mons Ruemker, a mountain overlooking Oceanus Procellarum — the "Ocean of Storms"  — and China's space agency says the probe has already started gathering rocks and soil. The China National Space Administration (CNSA)  says Chang'e-5 "will bring about 2 kilograms of lunar samples back to Earth in mid-December, 44 years after the last substances from the moon were returned to Earth." That was on a Soviet mission called Luna 24. It's what scientists call "sample return." Sample return missions are becoming increasingly important for space exploration. First, they are test of technology and engineering — our ability to land on a moon or planet, such as Mars, and return to Earth. Second, we're still trying to work out why and how our solar system formed the way it did. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3lk4B Helping it along the way is the European Space Agency's tracking network, Estrack — a global network of ground stations  that is run by the European Space Operations Centre (ESOC) in Darmstadt, Germany. Europe is keen to work with China on robotic missions  and human spaceflight. "We're now in the most critical phase of the mission," says Pier Bargellini, who heads ESA's Ground Facilities Operations Division. Once the samples have been collected, a return vehicle will launch from the lunar surface and then perform an automatic docking with an orbiting vehicle before it all returns to Earth. "And we're supporting this phase with a large antenna we have in Malargüe, Argentina," says Bargellini. "The Chinese have their own antenna in Argentina, so we're providing back up, so we don't lose any data if there are problems." That's important to ensure all those critical steps perform as planned. After that, a Spanish antenna at Maspalomas in the Canary Islands will track the sample return vehicle as it reenters Earth to land north China's Inner Mongolia. "You want to track the return vehicle as much as you can to know its trajectory exactly and ensure it reenters at the right place," says Bargellini. ESA has supported a number of China's Chang'e missions. But Chang'e-5 is, by CNSA own admission,  China's "most complex space mission ever." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3kTMI The moon and planet Earth are "intimately" linked, says Urs Mall, a researcher at the Max Planck Institute for Solar System Research. Mall says they are in a "double system." Some even say that the moon is "Earth's daughter." And the two together, say scientists, have got to have some bearing on our understanding of our solar system as a whole. "Take tectonics, for instance," says Mall. "Tectonics shaped Earth, we've known that [for a while], but we're now seeing tectonics on the moon. We need to understand why it's so strong on some planets and not so strong on others." Rocks and soil, meanwhile, are a good source of information about the formation of planets and moons. We've learnt a lot since the American Apollo sample return missions  of the late 1960s and early 70s and the Soviet Luna missions. "During the Apollo and Luna eras, it was more of a political question whether you brought samples home, and we asked some fundamental questions, like 'How old is the moon?'" says Mall. "But we need to know much more about the moon's entire composition, why the near side is so different from the far side." We've also learnt since Apollo and Luna that there's been volcanism on the moon, "so, the moon is not as dead as it looked originally." It's also important to land at sites that haven't been investigated before, says Mall. The Soviet Luna missions, for instance, were all in a "relatively small area." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3irST The Chinese are now going back to the moon to do what others didn't do before. "Absolutely," says Mall. In fact, Chang'e-5 is now doing what Europe could have done a long time ago, he says. "There have been long discussions in Europe, but it's been extremely difficult to convince people to go back." But perhaps it's not too late. ESA is keen to learn from the Chinese, and its collaboration on the Chang'e missions is a way for Europe to do that. "Europe is now active in trying to have missions to the moon — the moon is the focus of exploration for ESA, the Americans and many others," says Bargellini. "So, we are learning a lot about tracking spacecraft around the moon." They also hope to learn from China's automatic docking technology for a joint European and American sample return mission to Mars. The moon faces stiff competition from Mars. China's got its Mars missions as well. There is that European-American mission mentioned above, and Japanese plans for returning rocks and soil  from a Martian moon. About 10 or 15 years ago, says Bargellini, there was a debate in the space community about whether to focus on the moon or Mars, and where to invest. "Things have changed a lot in the past five years, because the moon is not just an interest to space agencies but now we also have several companies interested in services for the moon," Bargellini says. "And ESA and NASA are both trying to get companies to invest in infrastructure for communication  with landers and orbiters around the moon." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3LyRJ Plus, the moon is less technologically complex to reach, says Bargellini. "It's one thing to do [these missions] on the moon, where the delay is a couple of seconds," says Bargellini, "and it's another thing to do them on Mars where the delay can be up to 40 minutes." So, the moon is a great testing ground for missions farther afield. "Whatever we learn on the moon missions will be beneficial for the future of Mars exploration," he say. And on that score, it looks like China has just taken a lead on the rest of the pack. "There's no question that the Chinese are able, they have shown before that they can land on the moon, and they are showing us they can collect samples and hopefully bring them back to Earth," says Mall. "Now, it's time for them to show that they can collaborate scientifically with the whole world." Read more: The facts on Tianwen-1: Mars orbiter and rover According to NASA research, the moon is slowly losing heat, which causes its surface to shrivel up like a grape turning into a raisin. But that's not all: its interior is shrinking! The moon has become about 50 meters (150 feet) "skinnier" over the past several hundred million years. Conspiracy theorists believe that the lunar landing was a fake, and that Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin walked around on July 21st, 1969, on a soundstage instead of the moon. They point to the fact that the flag planted by Aldrin waved as if moved by the wind, which would be impossible in space's vacuum. NASA's explanation: Aldrin was twisting the flagpole while planting it in the ground. If it's summer in your neck of the woods, you might be sweating right now. But just remember: temperatures are little more extreme on the moon. When the sun hits its surface, it can get up to 127 degrees Celsius (260 degrees Fahrenheit) hot. Without the warm glow, temperatures can drop down to -153 degrees Celsius (-243 degrees Fahrenheit). Brrr! The myth of a person living on the moon has existed for almost as long as Earth's satellite itself. Some people see a face on the surface of the full moon, composed of the dark lunar plains and the lighter lunar highlands. Many cultures have tales about an actual person who committed some kind of misdeed and was banished to the moon for it. Astronauts are yet to encounter them, though. The moon is drifting away from Earth at a speed of almost 4 centimeters (1.5 inches) per year. The farther away our satellite is, the smaller it appears to us. In about 550 million years, it'll look too small to ever "cover" all of the sun, even at its closest position to Earth. That'll mean no more total solar eclipses. Ah, howling at the moon — no old-timey scary movie is complete without it. But in fact, wolves do not intensify their howling when a full moon rolls around, and they don't direct their howls at the moon, either. They simply yowl at night, which is also the time when a full moon is most visible. That could be one reason our ancestors drew the connection. 12 humans have walked on the moon so far. While they come from various professional fields, they have a couple of things in common: All of them are American, all of them are white and all of them are men. Let's see where the first non-American on the moon will be from — maybe it'll be a woman and/or person of color, too! Author: Carla Bleiker