Around 10,000 years ago, at the end of the last ice age, the sea level in northern Europe was still about 60 meters (197 feet) below what it is today. The British Isles and the European mainland formed a continuous landmass. Relatively large rivers crossed this landmass, but in a different way than we know today. The Elbe, for example, flowed into a large inland lake. The Rhine flowed from east to west over long distances. Before it reached the sea at the latitude of Brittany, the Thames flowed into it. Where the North Sea is today, there were fertile meadows and forests through which hunter-gatherers roamed. The coast ran about 300 kilometers (186 miles) further north along an area of about 30,000 square kilometers (11,580 square miles) that received the name of "Doggerland" in the 1990s, called after a sandbank now located in the region. We do not yet know much about life on this sunken tract of land. Every now and then, fishermen have found mammoth teeth and bones of now-extinct land animals, such as aurochs, in their nets. In 1931, fishermen discovered a 21.6-centimeter-long (8.5-inch-long) prehistoric harpoon made of bone with ornate decorations in their trawl nets, which has been dated to 11,740 BC. In 1988, a stone disc ax from the Mesolithic was recovered. For a long time, however, Doggerland remained a seeming myth. It is only in the last 20 years that researchers from the UK in particular have been using special ships to systematically examine the seabed for traces. Most of the investigations focus on the area of Brown Bank, also known as Brown Ridge, a shoal about 30 kilometers long between the UK and the Netherlands. Today, the sea there is between 18 and 20 meters deep. The scientists are compiling geophysical data and analyzing cores from the sediment layers there. Using artificially generated seismic waves, archaeologists at the University of Bradford have been able to map the geological makeup of the seabed fairly accurately. In the sedimentary layers, they have found the genetic material of animals and plants, which suggests there were extensive mixed forests and sprawling hilly landscapes with wild cattle and pigs, reindeer and other mammals — ideal conditions for the Stone Age hunter-gatherers. Many of today's Halligen, or small islands without protective dikes, in the North Sea also barely peek out of the water However, this fertile land became smaller and smaller over time, because with the end of the ice age, the sea level rose — by 35 meters in two millennia, or almost 2 centimeters per year. Gradually, only the higher parts of Doggerland still rose out of the sea. But the remaining island was still about as large as today's Wales, with an area of some 23,000 square kilometers. An apocalyptic catastrophe far off the Norwegian coast put an end to the shrinking island. About 8,200 years ago, huge parts of the continental slope broke off in the sea far below the surface in several phases during the so-called "Storegga Slides". Over a stretch of about 290 kilometers, an estimated 3,500 cubic kilometers of rock and debris plunged into the water's depths. The resulting tsunami, at least 10 to 12 meters high, raced across the sea. On the Shetland Islands north of Scotland, sediment data have indicated a tidal wave that was more than 20 meters high. Even in England, the effects of this wave can still be traced 40 kilometers from the present-day coast. For a long time, scientists assumed that a tsunami of this kind also caused the Dogger Bank, which was still protruding from the sea, to sink completely. According to a study by researchers at the University of Bradford, however, there was no single, all-destroying tsunami. Rather, by examining sediments, the researchers were able to prove  that only the northern part of Doggerland was submerged after the tsunami and that the destructive force of its floods was probably slowed down by hills or forests on the island. It is true that large parts of the forests were destroyed, that people and animals perished in the floods, that the seawater salinized the soils and that, in many places, only marshlands were left behind. However, after the water receded, the flooded area recovered over the years, as is demonstrated by the fact that evidence of plants and animals can be found again in the sediment layers above the disrupted tsunami layer. The rocks of Helgoland may be the last visible remains of the former Doggerland So life probably continued on the Dogger Bank for some centuries after the tsunami,. It was not until 700 years after the Storegga landslides — around 5500 BC — that the sea level rose so much that the North Sea engulfed the rest of the Dogger Bank. At that point, the island was completely submerged, and all traces of it vanished into the waves of the rough North Sea. Dike construction is a job where everyone really needs to help out. In the Middle Ages, draconian punishments were imposed when someone neglected his dike duties. This sculpture in Otterndorf on the Elbe estuary shows what a drudgery dike construction is. For centuries this work was done by the coastal residents themselves, in addition to working in the field or stable. In February 1962, the coastal regions of Germany and in particular around the city of Hamburg were flooded from February 16 to February 17. A total of about 60,000 homes were destroyed and the death toll amounted to 315 in Hamburg alone. An old-style water irrigation system in East Frisia next to a pumping station. Inland water is pumped outside. The system works even at higher water levels in front of the dike. The gates in the dikes have given their name to many places in East Frisia: Greetsiel, Carolinensiel, Bensersiel, Neuharlingersiel etc. A dike should let the water "out" — of course. But in the case of the North Sea coast, where the land is sometimes below sea level, water collects and must be drained. This is where the so-called Sieltor in the dikes comes into play. It is opened when the water level is lower at low tide, and then the water can drain into the sea. Dike construction is cooperatively organized and financed by contributions from residents, who also elect chairpersons, aka dikemasters, beach birds or chief sealers. Regular dike inspections are not carried out on horseback, as they were in the 19th century. Theodor Storm created a literary monument to the dikemaster with the "Pale Rider". "Who does not want to die?" Every child knows this saying on the North Sea coast — even if they don’t even speak Plattdeutsch any more: "If you do not want to dive, you have to give way". This photograph from the North Frisian Klanxbüll shows the dimensions: workers here are barely recognizable, while the dike extends to the horizon. A broken dam built to contain the swollen Elbe river during floods is pictured in front of the village of Fischbeck in the federal state of Saxony Anhalt, June 10, 2013. In the event of a particularly high tide or a storm surge, soldiers from the Bundeswehr may be called in to haul sand bags in the hundreds. With their help, the dikes are weighted from above and thus stabilized. In addition, they are also raised a bit. Author: Dirk Kaufmann (jh)  