The far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) party apologized on Wednesday after facing backlash for commissioning a coloring book with racist drawings. In a statement sent to DW, the AfD's state parliamentary group in the western state of North Rhine-Westphalia (NRW) said it wanted to "sincerely apologize" for the incident. "Although the majority of the drawings were unobjectionable and in line with the project assignment, unfortunately there were also a few that are definitely not OK and also obviously do not represent the beliefs of the parliamentary group," the statement said. The AfD said that although they'd commissioned the coloring book, it was "prematurely published." One of the images from the AfD coloring book shows people waving around guns alongside Turkish flags Markus Wagner, the head of the AfD's state parliamentary group in NRW, also walked back his initial defense of the project. "The assessment I made yesterday was a mistake. The book should not have been published in this form," Wagner said in the statement. The party previously defended the project, saying the criticism was "an attack on artistic and satirical freedom." Read more: AfD criticizes German cardinal over sea rescue donation Racist caricatures Earlier on Wednesday, the NRW state parliament announced it launched an investigation into whether the AfD improperly used public funds in order to commission the coloring book. Police and prosecutors said they are also investigating the incident over suspected incitement. The coloring book, entitled "North Rhine-Westphalia for coloring in," was handed out an event held by the AfD's state parliamentary group in the western city of Krefeld over the weekend. Another scene from the book shows a swimming pool with women in burqas and depicts people with thick lips and bones in their hair One of the drawings in the book depicted a scene at a pool — with women wearing burqas and other characters wearing swimming caps adorned with bones. A hand towards the bottom of the page is holding a knife while a banner over the pool reads: "We have to carry the can for this." Another page depicts a group of people leaning out of cars and brandishing guns while waving Turkish flags. NRW is Germany's most populous state and also one of its most diverse. It is home to large communities of Turkish immigrants. Pictures of the coloring book drawings sparked outrage online and drew ire from politicians across Germany's political spectrum as well as censure from the Catholic Church. Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. Co-chairman Alexander Gauland said the German national soccer team's defender Jerome Boateng might be appreciated for his performance on the pitch - but people would not want "someone like Boateng as a neighbor." He also argued Germany should close its borders and said of an image showing a drowned refugee child: "We can't be blackmailed by children's eyes." Alice Weidel generally plays the role of "voice of reason" for the far-right populists, but she, too, is hardly immune to verbal miscues. Welt newspaper, for instance, published a 2013 memo allegedly from Weidel in which she called German politicians "pigs" and "puppets of the victorious powers in World War II. Weidel initially claimed the mail was fake, but now admits its authenticity. German border police should shoot at refugees entering the country illegally, the former co-chair of the AfD told a regional newspaper in 2016. Officers must "use firearms if necessary" to "prevent illegal border crossings." Communist East German leader Erich Honecker was the last German politician who condoned shooting at the border. The head of the AfD in the state of Thuringia made headlines for referring to Berlin's Holocaust memorial as a "monument of shame" and calling on the country to stop atoning for its Nazi past. The comments came just as Germany enters an important election year - leading AfD members moved to expel Höcke for his remarks. Initially, the AfD campaigned against the euro and bailouts - but that quickly turned into anti-immigrant rhetoric. "People who won't accept STOP at our borders are attackers," the European lawmaker said. "And we have to defend ourselves against attackers." Pretzell, former chairman of the AfD in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia and husband to Frauke Petry, wrote "These are Merkel's dead," shortly after news broke of the deadly attack on the Berlin Christmas market in December 2016. The member of parliament in Germany's eastern state of Saxony made waves in early 2016 with an inquiry into how far the state covers the cost of sterilizing unaccompanied refugee minors. Thousands of unaccompanied minors have sought asylum in Germany, according to the Federal Association for Unaccompanied Minor Refugees (BumF) — the vast majority of them young men. Poggenburg, head of the AfD in the eastern state of Saxony-Anhalt, has also raised eyebrows with extreme remarks. In February 2017, he urged other lawmakers in the state parliament to join measures against the extreme left-wing in order to "get rid of, once and for all, this rank growth on the German racial corpus" — the latter term clearly derived from Nazi terminology. During a campaign speech in Eichsfeld in August 2017, AfD election co-candidate Alexander Gauland said that Social Democrat parliamentarian Aydan Özoguz should be "disposed of" back to Anatolia. The German term, "entsorgen," raised obvious parallels to the imprisonment and killings of Jews and prisoners of war under the Nazis. Gauland was roundly criticized for a speech he made to the AfD's youth wing in June 2018. Acknowledging Germany's responsibility for the crimes of the Nazi era, he went on to say Germany had a "glorious history and one that lasted a lot longer than those damned 12 years. Hitler and the Nazis are just a speck of bird shit in over 1,000 years of successful German history." The Brandenburg state AfD chief admitted in 2019 to attending a 2007 rally in Greece by the ultranationalist Golden Dawn party at which a swastika flag was raised. "Der Spiegel" had published a leaked report by the German embassy in Athens naming him as one of "14 neo-Nazis" who arrived from Germany for the far-right rally. Kalbitz released a statement saying he took part out of "curiosity." Author: Dagmar Breitenbach