Violence erupted in India's capital Monday between groups protesting for and against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). Seven people, including a policeman, were killed and at least 100 were reported to be injured. Following more clashes in the New Delhi neighborhoods of Maujpur, Bhajanpura, Karawal Nagar, Vijay Park and Yamuna Vihar on Tuesday, the death toll had risen to at least 13. One journalist was shot and wounded, while two were beaten by rioters. Some shops were set ablaze and schools were closed. The violence comes as US President Donald Trump is in India for a two-day visit. Indian media quoted sources from the Ministry of Home Affairs claiming that the violence was "orchestrated" to coincide with the visit. Over the last two months, several parts of India have seen protests over the CAA, which fast tracks citizenship of Hindu, Sikh, Buddhist, Jain, Parsi and Christian immigrants from Afghanistan, Pakistan and Bangladesh who arrived in India before 2015. It excludes Muslims, a move that has been criticized for undermining India's secular constitution. Locals condemn violence The air was tense Tuesday in Shaheen Bagh, a Muslim-majority neighborhood in southern New Delhi, which is the epicenter of anti-CAA protests. Protesters started gathering in the morning and people could be heard talking about Monday's events in hushed voices. Some of them talked about what they experienced, and others said they would march to denounce the violence. "We had gone to northeast Delhi from Shaheen Bagh to meet people yesterday. The violence started as soon as we left," Ruby Sahaifi, a 22-year-old protester, told DW. "We didn't see any tension building up while we were there," she added. Others claimed that the violence was incited by anti-Muslim elements. "People are instigating violence. They have been trained to do this. They say India is ours and you should leave," said a 45-year-old woman who identified herself only as Shaheen Bagh, after the neighborhood. "We won't be deterred by the violence. We will continue our protest peacefully," she said. Many protesters at Shaheen Bagh criticized the "grand" welcome that the Narendra Modi government gave the US president. They said that "lavish preparations" were made for Trump amid unrest in the country. "There is violence. Parts of the capital were set ablaze but Prime Minister Modi is busy entertaining guests," said Bagh, who has been protesting in New Delhi since December. Read more: Opinion: The death of Indian democracy Some protesters alleged that the Modi government was trying to portray an image of the country in front of Trump that was contradictory to the "realities on ground." "For Trump's reception in Ahmedabad, they wrote 'world's largest democracy meets world's oldest democracy' on a wall," said Amita Bag, a hospital worker from the state of West Bengal. "Is there democracy in India? So many people all over the country have been demanding for months that CAA be rolled back. But our voices have gone unheard." Trump talks about religious freedom, but not CAA President Trump responded to a question about the unrest due to the CAA during a press conference in New Delhi on Tuesday. "We did talk about religious freedom. The prime minister said he wants people to have religious freedom," Trump said. He said India has worked "hard" for religious freedom. There were expectations that Trump would talk to Modi about the CAA but the US president said that it was not discussed. "I heard about the individual attacks, but I did not discuss it. It is up to India," Trump said. Some protesters earlier in the day had urged Trump to take up the issue of CAA with Modi, referring to the good relations between the two leaders. "Trump has always talked about PM Modi being a good friend. He should tell his friend to take CAA back. We will vacate all roads if he supports us," Ruby Sahaifi, who has been frequenting the protests for months with her aunts and sisters, said. Read more: Trump says US keen to boost defense sales to India Others pointed out the similarities in the ideology of the two right-wing leaders. "Both India and America have similar problems. Trump and Modi have the same ideology when it comes to Muslims," Amita Bag said. Other protesters said that CAA was an internal matter to be taken up within the Modi government, and no foreign intervention was needed. "We want Trump to see what's happening on humanitarian grounds. We don't need to tell him anything, he should see it for himself," said 60-year-old Nachhattar Singh from Punjab, who came to New Delhi with 10 others to protest. After a 17-hour journey, US President Donald Trump touched down in Ahmedabad, marking the start of his first visit to India as president. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi welcomed the US leader and first lady Melania Trump to his home state of Gujarat. The visit is intended to jump-start ties between the world’s two biggest democracies, which have recently been strained under trade tensions. Seven people were killed and at least 90 injured in violent riots on the sidelines of Trump's visit. India has experienced weeks of unrest since a controversial new citizenship law came into force in December. Critics say the law discriminates against Muslims. The latest violence erupted when hundreds of supporters and opponents of the law clashed in a Muslim-dominated area of Delhi on Sunday. The visit featured a mega-rally at the city's newly-built cricket stadium — billed as the biggest in the world with its capacity to hold 100,000 people. The 22-kilometer (14-mile) stretch is lined with huge billboards featuring Modi and the Trumps. Trump's daughter Ivanka, his son-in-law Jared Kushner, and US National Security Adviser Robert O'Brien also attended the "Namaste Trump" event at Sardar Patel Gujarat Stadium. Activists of left-wing parties gathered in the city of Guwahati, in the northeastern state of Assam, to protest Trump's visit to India. Assam has seen an outbreak of protests against the Modi government's controversial citizenship bill, which some say undermine India's secular traditions and excludes Muslim Indians. Trump's three-hour visit to Ahmedabad may cost civic authorities $13 million (€12 million), according to some estimates. This includes a wall built to hide one of the slums adjacent to the road expected to be used by Trump. ITC Maurya, the five-star hotel where Trump will be staying, has been turned into a fortress. Located in the city's secure Diplomatic Enclave, the hotel will not be accessible to the general public and all the 400+ rooms have been booked. Security teams from both the army and paramilitary forces will be patrolling the roads near the hotel and armed with snipers and sharp shooters. Trump and his wife visited the Taj Mahal in Agra, India. Ahead of their visit, the famous tombs at the iconic 17th century mausoleum were given a special clay pack treatment. The Yamuna river behind the Taj Mahal also received 17 million liters of water. On his way into the UNESCO world heritage site, Trump told reporters that it was an "incredible place."