French health minister Agnes Buzyn reported the first death from COVID-19 in Europe on Saturday. The victim is an 80-year-old Chinese tourist. The victim and his daughter had been treated at Bichat hospital, Paris, since January 25 where they were subject to strict isolation measures, said Buzyn in a statement. The daughter's health is not a cause for concern and she should be able to leave hospital soon, added the minister. Both individuals were from Hubei province, the epicenter of the outbreak. Responding to the latest development, World Health Organization emergency chief Mike Ryan told DW that the virus is still not spreading fast internationally. "The virus has been outside China now for a number of weeks and we still have only got just over 500 cases in 24 countries and those countries are significantly containing the virus." He added that countries many not be able to slow it down entirely and that it may take the development of vaccines to finally stop the disease. "But what we can do is save a lot of lives, what we can do is take care of our vulnerable populations and get them the treatments they need. So no, it's no time for white flags. This is the time for action," said Ryan, on the sidelines of Munich Security Conference. Only three deaths had been recorded from the virus outside of China— in the Philippines, Hong Kong and Japan. France has 11 cases of the virus. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3XotG Beijing announces strict COVID-19 measures Beijing announced new strict rules for returnees in the capital's latest bid to contain the virus. Anyone returning to the city will be subject to a 14-day quarantine or risk punishment, ordered its virus prevention working group. Chinese state media announced the measure late on Friday. The working group warned there will be legal consequences for those who do not comply with the self-imposed 14-day quarantine. It did not elaborate on how the isolation will be enforced or what the punishment would be. Chinese officials are concerned that COVID-19 may spread further as migrants return to their jobs in cities or other provinces after a prolonged Lunar New Year holiday. Death toll reaches 1,500 The latest attempt to stop the spread of the virus came as the death toll reached 1,500 after the Hubei province's health commission confirmed 139 more people had died. The health commission from the central Chinese province, the epicenter of the outbreak, also disclosed 2,420 fresh cases of the COVID-19 strain, half the number from the previous day. World Health Organization Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told the Munich Security Conference on Saturday that the outbreak was still an emergency for China and it was impossible to predict where it may spread. He said he was encouraged by China's containment measures but that the increasing number of cases was still a cause for concern. Read more: Coronavirus containment in Europe working 'so far,' says Germany's Spahn Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Xnp4 Revisions to diagnosis see figures surge This week saw the scale of the epidemic increase significantly after authorities in Hubei province changed their criteria for qualifying cases. Patients "clinically diagnosed" through lung imaging are now included, in addition to those that have shown up positive after laboratory analysis, adding thousands of new patients to Hubei's infection figures. Cause for celebration on Cambodia cruise ship More than half the passengers on a luxury cruise finally got to disembark on Saturday at a Cambodian port after the ship was turned away from the Philippines, Taiwan, Japan, South Korea and Thailand due to fears about the virus. A Cambodian official announced the development, saying that the decision was made after tests on 20 people came back negative. The official added that the people had been tested "out of an abundance of caution." Most of the 1,200 people who disembarked from ship at the Sihanoukville port were intending to head to the capital for further travel, said a government spokesperson. German ship docks in Thailand Meanwhile, the German cruise ship "Aidavita"  docked at Laem Chabang port in Thailand on Saturday morning, after being turned away from Vietnam due to fears that those on board may have the virus. The 1,100 passengers, mostly from Germany, and 400 crew members are expected to be able to leave the ship on Sunday morning. There were no suspicious cases aboard the ship, the ship's company spokesman said in a statement. No guest or crew member on board had been to China within the last 14 days. kmm,jsi/sms (AFP, AP, Reuters, dpa) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.