The novel Coranavirus SARS-CoV-2, which causes the COVID-19 disease, is a global challenge that requires responsible actionon the part of each individual. Every single citizen, but also companies, institutions and organizations can take measures to protect themselves from the virus and be prepared for a pandemic. Preparations for a pandemic focus on three areas How can I protect myself? Coronaviruses are passed on by droplet infection, the virus multiplies in the throat. From there the pathogens can be expelled from the body faster than from the lungs, for example by sneezing, coughing or blowing. In this way SARS-CoV-2 spreads onto surfaces where it  comes into contact with mucous membranes and infects others by smear infection via the hands. What concrete measures can individuals undertake to protect themselves and others from a droplet infection? If possible, avoid busy places and events and wash your hands! Breathing masks offer little protection to healthy people. When worn, the masks become moist through air intake. After just 20 minutes their protective barrier deteriorates. Masks should be reserved for medical staff. How can I prepare for a pandemic? If it comes to an intense wave of infections, restrictions on movement will most likely be imposed and this could lead to supply bottlenecks. Take precautions so that you can stay at home for several weeks if necessary. How can I help the community? The more people make efforts to prepare, the more the feeling of togetherness increases. You can improve the situation by helping communities to organize help for themselves. After surviving the COVID-19 disease you are immune to the pathogen. Therefore, you can leave your home and volunteer to take over other errands and do some shopping for those who are still sick and infectious.  If not already in place, employers should work out possibilities for home office and teleworking What can employers do? When a highly infectious virus spreads, businesses need to take precautions to protect their employees. Sick or at-risk employees should stay at home. Whenever possible, employers should offer possibilities for home office or teleworking. What about business and leisure travel? During a pandemic, travel plans should be regularly reviewed. Employers and employees need to study the latest guidelines and recommendations for each destination. Companies should advise their employees to have themselves examined for symptoms of acute respiratory illness before travel and to stay home if they become ill. According to the World Health Organization, there is no evidence to support claims that a saline solution will "kill” the virus and protect you. Certain brands of mouthwash may eliminate particular microbes from your saliva for a few minutes, but, according to the WHO, this does not protect you from the new coronavirus. This dubious claim has been spreading like wildfire across social media. Though it is possible that garlic may have some antimicrobial properties, there is no evidence to suggest from the current coronavirus outbreak that eating this bulb will protect people from the virus. There is no evidence to suggest pets, such as cats and dogs, can be infected or transmit the coronavirus. Regularly washing your hands with soap and water after touching your beloved moggy or pooch will help stop the spread of bacteria that they commonly carry, such as E. coli and salmonella. People receiving parcels from China are not at risk of contracting the new coronavirus, as the virus does not survive long on objects. Due to the poor survivability of the coronavirus on surfaces, there is a very low risk of spread from products or packaging that are shipped over a period of days or weeks. The new coronavirus needs its own vaccine. Pneumonia vaccines such as the pneumococcal and the Haemophilus influenzae type B (Hib) vaccine will not protect you against the coronavirus. Bleach/chlorine-based disinfectants, solvents, 75% ethanol, peracetic acid and chloroform can kill the 2019-nCoV on hard surfaces; however, they have little or no impact if you put them on your skin. To avoid a coronavirus infection, always cook raw foods thoroughly. It is also advisable to avoid direct contact with people who are sick. Frequently washing your hands with soap and water can help prevent an infection. You can also use an alcohol-based sanitizing gel instead. If you have to cough or sneeze, cover your mouth and nose with a tissue or your elbow. If you have contracted the disease without knowing it, coughing or sneezing in this manner might help to reduce the spread. Author: Jessie Wingard