Britain ended nearly 50 years of integration with Europe, making a historic exit from the European Union (EU) on February 1, 2020. Analysts say that Brexit should be a matter of concern for most foreigners living in Britain because many supporters of Britain's divorce from the EU tend to pursue an isolationist approach. Brexit, with alarming support from the far-right, could fuel a rise in racism and extremism in Britain. But polls and studies before and after the 2016 Brexit referendum have shown that a considerable part of Britain's South Asian community favors their country's separation from Europe, ignoring the possibility of a post-Brexit xenophobic surge. "A large number of South Asians have been living in Britain for a very long time. They have different concerns and perspectives than those South Asians who have just arrived in the country. The older generation is definitely concerned about the rise of racism and far-right extremism, as they believe that Brexit has fueled these tendencies," Adeel Khan, an anthropologist and researcher at Cambridge University, told DW. "But the new economic migrants are less exposed to racism. They believe that Brexit is going to increase economic opportunities for them," Khan added. Some experts think Brexit offers a unique economic opportunity for British South Asians — something that was not possible with Britain being part of the EU bloc. Asad Abbasi, a London School of Economics (LSE) alumnus, attempts to explain the reasons behind the South Asian community's anti-Europe inclinations in a blog for Vice magazine: "For months before the referendum, everyone I spoke to in Newham [a London borough] — the local grocer; the Asian barbers; the chicken shop employees; the restaurants owners; estate agents; the underpaid workers; the tax-avoiding shop owners — supported Brexit. The arguments were the same: the rent prices, the NHS [National Health Service], the benefit cuts. The blame: Immigration," Abbasi said. "More than this, there was the hope that once European migration stops, migration from South Asian countries can restart. It is a fight for resources between immigrants," Abbasi argued. Read more: As Britain votes, the economy hangs in the balance According to the 2011 UK Census, South Asians make up almost 5% of the total population An economic opportunity? Faheem Nusrat, a British-Indian who works in London, agrees that Brexit would offer more economic opportunities to South Asian immigrants, but warns that they are unlikely to be the same across the country. "It [economic opportunity] depends on where you live in the country. Asians living in areas outside large cities will be more fearful of the competition post-Brexit. In the cities, Asian communities won't be affected in the same way. They will likely follow the conservative line and try to get ahead economically," Nusrat told DW. Many South Asian students in Britain believe that fewer immigrants from European countries would mean more academic and employment opportunities for them. "Brexit has led to a reinvigoration in Commonwealth relations, including stronger ties in educational exchanges between the UK's ex-colonies and the UK. South Asian and African students can expect to be given favorable treatment in the near future led by change in government policy in favor of the Commonwealth," said Adeel Khan. Read more: Brexit: Why South Asian students are looking forward to it Basharat Issa, a student of anthropology at the London School of Economics, told DW that many South Asian students think that if the arrival of European students decreases, there could be more opportunities for them. "But I think it depends on various regulations and changes, if and when they occur. These include the hike in tuition fees and a new visa policy for European students after the Brexit process is completed," he said. Issa believes the impact of Brexit on Asian students is also related to their economic status. "Two types of South Asian students come to the UK: students from affluent families and those who rely on scholarships. If Brexit does not result in increased scholarships for South Asian students, then it would be meaningless," Issa pointed out. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3X82U Isolation could fuel extremism Cambridge researcher Khan is of the view that the financial aspect of Brexit is blinding South Asian immigrants to "the general rightward direction in the country." "Brexit is not necessarily a racist phenomenon in the political discourse, but activism of pro-Brexit parties in the UK has somewhat aligned itself with racist tendencies and far-right groups. Because of this alignment, Brexit could pose a serious challenge to South Asian immigrants in the coming years," Khan underlined, adding that the resurgence of nationalism in Britain has not been taken seriously by Asian communities. Read more: Nigel Farage addresses Germany's far-right AfD "The EU provided a wider check and balance for extreme nationalism. There could have been human rights appeals to the European Court of Justice, for instance," he added. Are Bangladeshis, Indians and Pakistanis living in the UK worried about the prospect? "In the late 70s and 80s, I experienced racism firsthand. Then over the course of 25 years, I didn't experience anything along those lines beyond veiled institutional racism. But then [the referendum on] Brexit occurred three years ago and I experienced a violent attack myself. I believe it was not necessarily related to racism but rather an assertion that those people could attack Asians," Indian entrepreneur Nusrat said. Read more: UN: Racism has risen since Brexit vote Khan said the post-Brexit isolationism could also push British Muslims toward radicalism. "As there will be no European checks, the situation can lead to the exacerbation in community and race relations. With an increasing frustration in certain sections of the Muslim community, which were not able to express their extremist view because of the large EU influence, they could increasingly try to assert themselves in the future." Some experts are of the view that Britain's exit from the EU has harmed the pluralistic European model of integration and cultural diversity. Although many British South Asians at the moment are rooting for their country's separation from Europe, it could be extremely harmful for them in the long run. After a shrill referendum campaign, nearly 52% of British voters opted to leave the EU on June 23. Polls had shown a close race before the vote with a slight lead for those favoring remaining in the EU. Conservative British Prime Minister David Cameron, who had campaigned for Britain to stay, acknowledged the "will of the British people" and resigned the following morning. Former Home Secretary Theresa May replaced David Cameron as prime minister on July 11 and promised the country that "Brexit means Brexit." May had quietly supported the Remain campaign before the referendum. She did not initially say when her government would trigger Article 50 of the EU treaty to start the two-year talks leading to Britain's formal exit. May eventually signed a diplomatic letter over six months later on March 29, 2017 to trigger Article 50. Hours later, Britain's ambassador to the EU, Tim Barrow, handed the note to European Council President Donald Tusk. Britain's exit was officially set for March 29, 2019. Tusk ended his brief statement on the decision with: "We already miss you. Thank you and goodbye." British Brexit Secretary David Davis and the EU's chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, kicked off talks in Brussels on June 19. The first round ended with Britain reluctantly agreeing to follow the EU's timeline for the rest of the negotiations. The timeline split talks into two phases. The first would settle the terms of Britain's exit, and the second the terms of the EU-UK relationship post-Brexit. The second round of talks in mid-July began with an unflattering photo of a seemingly unprepared British team. It and subsequent rounds ended with little progress on three phase one issues: How much Britain still needed to pay into the EU budget after it leaves, the post-Brexit rights of EU and British citizens and whether Britain could keep an open border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. Leaders of the remaining 27 EU members formally agreed that "sufficient progress" had been made to move on to phase two issues: the post-Brexit transition period and the future UK-EU trading relationship. While Prime Minister Theresa May expressed her delight at the decision, European Council President Tusk ominously warned that the second stage of talks would be "dramatically difficult." British ministers appeared to back a Brexit plan at May's Chequers residence on July 6. The proposal would have kept Britain in a "combined customs territory" with the EU and signed up to a "common rulebook" on all goods. That went too far for British Foreign Minister Boris Johnson and Brexit Secretary David Davis, who resigned a few days later. May replaced them with Jeremy Hunt and Dominic Raab. May's Chequers proposal did not go down well with EU leaders, who told her at a summit in Salzburg in late September that it was unacceptable. EU Council President Tusk trolled May on Instagram, captioning a picture of himself and May looking at cakes with the line: "A piece of cake perhaps? Sorry, no cherries." The gag echoed previous EU accusations of British cherry-picking. EU leaders endorsed a 585-page draft divorce deal and political declaration on post-Brexit ties in late November. The draft had been widely condemned by pro- and anti-Brexit lawmakers in the British Parliament only weeks earlier. Brexit Secretary Dominic Raab resigned along with several other ministers, and dozens of Conservative Party members tried to trigger a no-confidence vote in May. In the face of unrelenting opposition, May postponed a parliamentary vote on the deal on December 10. The next day, she met with German Chancellor Angela Merkel to seek reassurances that would, she hoped, be enough to convince skeptical lawmakers to back the deal. But while she was away, hard-line Conservative lawmakers triggered a no-confidence vote. May won the vote a day later. The UK Parliament voted 432 to 202 against May's Brexit deal on January 16. In response to the result, European Council President Donald Tusk suggested the only solution was for the UK to stay in the EU. Meanwhile, Britain's Labour Party called for a no-confidence vote in the prime minister, her second leadership challenge in as many months. May tried to get legal changes to the deal's so-called Irish backstop in the weeks that followed. She eventually got assurances that the UK could suspend the backstop under certain circumstances. But on March 12, Parliament voted against the revised Brexit deal by 391 to 242. EU leaders warned the vote increased the likelihood of a no-deal Brexit. Two days later, MPs voted to delay Brexit. Following the second defeat of May's divorce deal, the European Council met in Brussels on March 21 to decide what to do next. EU leaders gave May two options: delay Brexit until May 22 if MPs vote for the withdrawal deal or delay it until April 12 if they vote against the deal. If the deal were to fail again in Parliament, May could ask for a long extension. On March 29, the day that the UK was supposed to leave the EU, British lawmakers voted for a third time against May's deal — rejecting it this time with a vote of 344 to 286. Following the latest defeat, May approached the main opposition Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn in an attempt to find a compromise, angering hardline Brexiteers in her own Conservative party. With the April 12 deadline looming after the third defeat of May's deal, EU leaders met again in Brussels to discuss a second delay. The only question was how long should it be? In the end, the UK and EU agreed to a "flexible" extension until October 31 — which can end sooner if the Brexit deal is approved. The UK had to take part in EU elections in May because their exit wasn't secured in time. Weeks of talks between Prime Minister Theresa May and the Labour party to reach a deal proved unsuccessful and further eroded her political capital. She triggered an angry backlash from her party after she tried to put the option of a second referendum on the table. The series of failures led May to announce her resignation, effective June 7, in an emotional address. After Theresa May announced on June 7 that she would leave office, other members of her Conservative party began clamoring for the top job. Within a month, the leadership battle came down to Jeremy Hunt (left), an EU proponent who fears a no-deal scenario, and Boris Johnson (right), one of the main proponents of Brexit. At the end of July 2019, Johnson was officially named Theresa May's successor as British prime minister. "We are going to energize the country, we are going to get Brexit done by October 31," he said after he was elected leader of the Conservative Party. Conservative rebels and opposition MPs backed efforts to delay an October 31 Brexit deadline in fear of a no-deal departure. In response, Johnson called for a general election, saying his government cannot rule without a mandate after he stripped 21 rebel MPs of their Conservative status. The Labour Party said it would not back elections until legislation to block a no-deal Brexit was in place. In late September, Britain's highest court ruled that Johnson's decision to suspend Parliament ahead of the UK's planned exit was unlawful. "This was not a normal prorogation in the run-up to a Queen's Speech," said the Supreme Court. Political rivals immediately called on Johnson to leave his post. Johnson said he would abide by the court ruling, though said he "strongly" disagreed. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson managed to secure a deal with European negotiators that would allow the UK to leave the EU in an orderly manner. The deal received unanimous backing from the leaders of 27 other member states. But an attempt to get the UK Parliament to sign off on the deal failed. Instead, Parliament pushed for the Brexit deadline to be extended until the end of January 2020. On December 22, UK lawmakers vote for Prime Minister Johnson's European Union withdrawal bill, which will see a leave date of January 31 2020 enshrined in law. Getting a majority to vote to pass the bill in the lower house has proven a major sticking point for the PM, but following a general election Johnson's Conservative party won control of the house and the bill passed with a 124 majority. Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.