- The number of confirmed deaths in China now stands at 490, after authorities reported 65 new fatalities in Hubei province. - Nearly a dozen passengers on a cruise liner docked in Japan test positive for coronavirus. - With 33 cases, Japan has the highest number of infections outside China. - Germany has the highest number of infections in Europe with 12. All updates in Coordinated Universal Time (UTC/GMT) 05:45: Hong Kong health officials are striking for a third day in a row, demanding that the border between Hong Kong and mainland China be completely closed to try and halt the virus. The first death in the semi-autonomous territory from the virus occurred on Tuesday. It has confirmed 18 cases, including four cases known to have been transmitted locally. The virus awoke memories of the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) outbreak in the territory in 2003 where nearly 300 people died. Carrie Lam, the city's chief executive, has closed many crossings with the mainland but has chosen to leave some open. 04:29 Japan's foreign minister, Toshimitsu Motegi, said a fourth chartered flight would be en route to Wuhan in the following day to bring back around 200 people. The passengers could include the Chinese spouses of Japanese citizens, Motegi said. 04:04 Thailand, Singapore and South Korea follow Japan in the total number of coronavirus infections with 25, 24 and 18 cases respectively. A total of 13 people have been infected in Australia while the highest number of cases outside of Asia and Oceania is in Germany, with 12 instances reported so far. 03:56 Japan has overtaken Thailand for the greatest number of infections outside of China following confirmation of infection among ten passengers on the quarantined cruise ship in Yokohama. Japan has reported 33 cases, whereas Thailand has 25. 03:33 China has quickly constructed hospitals to deal with the crisis, as well as converting a gymnasium, exhibition hall and cultural center in Wuhan, the capital of Hubei and epicenter of the outbreak. Patients are being transferred into a new, 1,000-bed hospital with prefabricated wards and isolation rooms. A 1,500-bed hospital also specially built will open in the coming days, authorities have confirmed. 03:05 China's Embassy in Berlin said it has seen increased hostility toward Chinese citizens living in Germany as a consequence of the coronavirus outbreak. "Recent incidents of hostility and xenophobic statements in individual media have increased after the coronavirus outbreak, and they are alarming," the embassy told German news agency dpa. Read more: Opinion: Drop the corona-racism against Chinese people 02:03 American Airlines announced it has suspended flights to Hong Kong through February 20 due to a lack of interest from potential customers. United Airlines said it too would suspend Hong Kong flights from Saturday until the same date due to waning demand. The companies have already announced a suspension of flights to and from mainland China following a US government travel advisory. 01:42 As a reminder, according to the World Health Organization (WHO), there have been 176 cases of coronavirus infection reported in 24 countries and regions outside of mainland China, excluding the cruise ship cases described below. Two individuals have died from the illness outside of China, one in Hong Kong on Tuesday and one in the Philippines last week. Both had spent time in Wuhan, the city at the heart of the viral outbreak. Read more: Wuhan medic: 'Many more infections than official numbers show' 00:31 US sports manufacturer Nike is preparing its shareholders for losses due to the epidemic. Nike said significant effects were to be expected. "In the short term, we expect the situation to have a material impact on our operations in Greater China," it said. Nike has already stopped operations in roughly half of its own stores in China. Read more: How will the coronavirus affect the world economy? 00:26 The death toll in mainland China has risen to 490 after Hubei province confirmed 65 more individuals had died from the virus. This is the biggest single-day jump since the first fatalities were reported last month. The number of confirmed infections nationwide has reached 24,324 with 3,887 fresh cases reported, the National Health Commission said. 00:01 At least ten passengers on a cruise ship that Japan quarantined on Tuesday have tested positive for the new coronavirus, the Japanese health minister said. The ship was carrying around 3,700 people, including crew, when in arrived in Yokohama Port. The process of screening passengers began after a person who had disembarked the vessel in Hong Kong was later diagnosed with the virus. Health Minister Katsunobu Kato said tests had been carried out on more than 200 passengers. "From around 7:30 a.m. [2230 GMT Tuesday], we had them [the 10 who tested positive] get off the vessel, and with cooperation with the coastguard we are sending them to medical organizations," he said. Cruise ship Diamond Princess is being held in the Yokohama Port, south of Tokyo 00:00 Hello there, this is John Silk keeping you up to date, wherever you are, on all the latest developments regarding the coronavirus. Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.