The Iowa Democratic Party said Monday that results from the first selection process to choose who will run against US President Donald Trump in November elections had been delayed. Apparent technology issues in a new app had caused "inconsistencies" in reporting, the party said in a statement. State party chairman Troy Price told reporters that votes were now being counted by hand and would be released "later on Tuesday." The Republican Party is also holding caucuses in the Midwest state, but Trump had no serious competition. The incumbent president was quickly confirmed the party's winner. Read more: Opinion: Only losers at the Caucus in Iowa The latest: How do the caucuses work? A total of 11 candidates are currently vying to lead the Democratic ticket. More than 1,600 caucus sites will declare support for their preferred presidential choice. For citizens, caucuses demand more effort than ballot-based primaries, where people mark a ballot paper for their preferred candidate. In the case of Iowa, those supporting a particular candidate must spend an hour or more standing up, in both a metaphorical and literal sense, for the one they are backing. Two rounds of voting occur in which a candidate needs to receive a minimum 15% threshold of votes in order to secure any delegates to then vote for them at the Democratic National Convention in July, when the final nominee is chosen after all primaries haven ended. DW's Kyra Levine, who is at the caucuses in Des Moines, tweeted a photo of the voter preference card that Iowans use to declare their candidate choice: The caucuses are also a moment to appoint delegates to county conventions and party committees, among other party activities. Democratic presidential candidate Elizabeth Warren visits a caucus in Des Moines, Iowa Why are they important? The caucuses are noteworthy as the first major contest of the United States presidential primary season. The result of the caucuses will influence the Democratic nomination by helping to whittle down a congested field. Defeat in Iowa, particularly a heavy one, usually spells the end of a campaign before other states even hold their primaries. In recent years, the winner in Iowa has also ended up becoming the Democratic nominee. Because political momentum solidifies behind the candidates who place top in the caucuses, the event will provide a clear indication of who are the favorites to lead the party in the hope of defeating Trump. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3XE3G What happens next in the presidential primary race? Iowa is the first of more than 50 contests that will take place in the coming months. The northeast state of New Hampshire is next up, with a vote taking place just eight days after Iowa. The key date for the diary is March 3, or "Super Tuesday." It is when the largest number of states hold primary elections and caucuses. On this day Alabama, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Democrats Abroad, Maine, Massachusetts, Minnesota, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, and Virginia will all hold their presidential primaries. Supporters of Pete Buttigieg gather at Lincoln High School in Des Moines, Iowa jsi/rt (dpa, AP, Reuters) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.