Iranians went to the polls on Friday to vote for a new parliament, in an election seen as unlikely to change approaches to domestic or foreign policy. Thousands of mostly moderate and reformist candidates were barred from the contest. The disqualification of 9,000 potential candidates raised the possibility of an unusually low voter turnout, with hardliners expected to prevail. DW's Theresa Tropper was at a polling station in northern Teheran Friday morning and reported "hardly any voters." "With half of the candidates barred from running, people feel they don't have a choice this time and can't make a difference anyway," she said. Read more: Where is the Iranian opposition? Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei kicked off the voting process by casting the first ballot in Tehran on state television. In the broadcast, Khameini said voting is a "religious duty" and urged Iranians to vote as soon as possible. Read more: Iran's military power: What you need to know Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Y5gs With Iran facing increasing discontent at home over economic hardships partially spurred by US sanctions, as well as growing isolation regarding diplomatic relations, analysts have said the voter turnout is expected to be a sign of Iranian citizens' support of their current government. Read more: Iran crisis: Saudis and US still at impasse over Middle East Gulf crisis A polling station in the western city of Hamadan "I don't expect anything," a shopper at a market in northern Tehran told DW. "Nothing from the parliament and nothing from the president. If they really represented the people they would have long since done something, but all they do is talk." Voting is set to run until Friday evening, with about 58 million Iranians eligible to vote for the representatives in the 290-member parliament. Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here. lc/rt (Reuters, AFP, AP)