The Academy Awards, commonly known as the Oscars, took place on Sunday night in Los Angeles, with the South Korean dark comedy thriller Parasite winning four awards, including best picture. The night also saw a first acting award for Brad Pitt for Quentin Tarantino's Once Upon a Time ... in Hollywood. Pitt previously won as a producer of 12 Years a Slave, but this is his first acting win. The award for best adapted screenplay went to New Zealander Taika Waititi for the Nazi-era comedy Jojo Rabbit. Laura Dern picked up the award for supporting actress for her role in Netflix's Marriage Story. Parasite also won the best director award for Bong Joon-Ho, as well as original screenplay and international feature film. Joaquin Phoenix delivered an emotional speech after winning best actor for Joker, and Renee Zellweger won best actress for the Judy Garland biopic, Judy. Scroll down to the bottom of this article for a full list of winners. Other winners include costume design for Little Women and animated feature film for Toy Story 4. 1917 picked up wins for sound mixing, cinematography and visual effects. Laura Dern wins Best Supporting Actress Oscar For the second year in a row, the ceremony was hostless. The thriller Joker led the nominations with 11, while Martin Scorsese's The Irishman, World War I epic 1917 and Once Upon a Time ... in Hollywood all had 10 nods. The Irishman failed to win a single award. You can read a full list of nominees here: 'Joker' leads Oscar nominations Lack of representation The awards were presented amid ongoing controversy around the lack of representation of women and people of color. Read more: Oscars: White and male nominees continue to dominate Greta Gerwig's Little Women was the only movie directed by a woman that received a nomination for best picture, although Gerwig was snubbed in the all-male best director category. Natalie Portman arrived in a dress embroidered with the names of female directors not nominated. Opening singer Janelle Monae called out the lack of female representation during her song. Meanwhile, the actor Chris Rock was quick to point out that only one person of color had been nominated in any of the four acting categories: Cynthia Erivo for Harriet. The animated short Hair Love, which features a young black girl's father learning how to do her hair, picked up an award, with creators Matthew Cherry and Karen Rupert Toliver taking the opportunity to say "representation matters." Hair Love creators Matthew A. Cherry and Karen Rupert Toliver Full list of winners: Actor in a supporting role — Brad Pitt, Once Upon a Time ... in Hollywood Animated feature film — Toy Story 4 Animated short film — Hair Love Original screenplay — Bong Joon-ho, Parasite Adapted screenplay — Taika Waititi, Jojo Rabbit Live action short film — The Neighbor's Window Production design — Once Upon a Time ... in Hollywood Costume design — Little Women Documentary feature — American Factory Documentary short subject — Learning to Skateboard in a Warzone (If You're a Girl) Actress in a supporting role — Laura Dern, Marriage Story Sound editing — Ford v Ferrari Sound mixing — 1917 Cinematography — 1917 Film editing — Ford v Ferrari Visual effects — 1917 Makeup and hairstyling — Bombshell International feature film — Parasite Original score — Joker Original song — I'm Gonna Love Me Again, Rocket Man Best directing — Bong Joon-Ho, Parasite Actor in a leading role — Joaquin Phoenix, Joker Actor in a leading role — Renee Zellweger, Judy Best motion picture — Parasite South Korean director Bong Joon-ho was the big winner of the 92nd Academy Awards, and not only because he won best director and best original screenplay for "Parasite," his dark social satire. The film was a global hit, and this success was reflected at the Oscars, where it won best film, making it the first non-English language film in Oscars history to take home the top award. Over the past several years, South Korean cinema has gained international prominence and popularity. "Parasite" director Bong accepted his four Oscars on behalf of the broader South Korean film industry. Along with best director, original screenplay and overall film, "Parasite" also took home best international feature film, for a total of four statuettes. The favorites in the best actor and actress categories ended up becoming the night's winners. Renee Zellweger won best actress for playing the title role in the film "Judy." In the drama she plays legendary American entertainer Judy Garland during the last years of her life. As predicted by numerous critics, Joaquin Phoenix won the Oscar for his memorable performance of a mentally ill man who goes on a violent rampage in the film "Joker." A dedicated actor, Phoenix reportedly lost 52 pounds (23 kilos) to play the role. The actor had already taken home several awards for his role in the film, so his Oscar win surprised few. American actress Laura Dern received the Oscar for best actress in a supporting role. She played a shrewd lawyer in the divorce drama "Marriage Story," produced by Netflix and directed by Noah Baumbach. The actress had received two prior Oscar nominations, but this was the first time she took home the famous gold statue. The award for best male actor in a supporting role went to Brad Pitt, who played a stuntman in Quentin Tarantino's "Once Upon a Time in Hollywood." Pitt had received four prior acting nominations, but it was the first such Oscar win for the star. He previously took home an award for his production role on 2014's best-picture winner, "12 Years a Slave." The Academy Awards were full of surprises this year, as the four most-nominated films (with 41 nods between them) took home a total of only seven awards in the end. "Parasite" was the evening's dominating film. "Joker," which had 11 nominations, won best film music, composed by Hildur Gudnadottir, along with best actor. Pop star Elton John won in the category best original song for "(I'm Gonna) Love Me Again." The lauded musician shared the award with lyricist Bernie Taupin. Together they wrote the song for the film "Rocketman," about the life of Elton John. World War I drama "1917" did not do as well as expected in the run-up to the big awards. Although it had 10 nominations, it won in only three categories. One of those wins was given to Roger Deakins for best cinematography. His camera work placed viewers in the center of the film's action. Deakins is no stranger to the academy; he's been nominated 15 times for an Oscar and won once before. The documentary "American Factory" explores the lives of employees working at a Chinese automotive company in the Midwest US state of Ohio. The film's directors, Julia Reichert and Steven Bognar (pictured at front), were delighted to win best documentary film. It was also the first film produced by Barack and Michelle Obama's film production company, Higher Ground Productions. Author: Jochen Kürten (sh) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.