German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier chose his words carefully on Thursday as he marked what is perhaps the most difficult of this year's anniversaries linked to the end of World War II — the bombing of Dresden. "When we remember the history of the bombing war in our country today, then we remember both: the suffering of the people in German cities, and the suffering that Germans inflicted on others," he said his speech at Dresden's Kulturpalast concert hall, part of a ceremony attended by Britain's Prince Edward and a host of Saxon politicians. Read more: Commemorating the legacy of the WWII bombing of Dresden "We don't forget," Steinmeier continued. "It was Germans who started this horrific war, and by the end it was millions of Germans who carried it out — not all, but then many out of conviction." The president also acknowledged the Allies' responsibility for the Dresden bombings while couching the issue in a wider context. "The question of Allied guilt leads down wrong detours if they're asked in order to relativize German guilt," he said. At the same time, he warned against "trivializing" the suffering of the Germans who were bombed. "Those who present the bombardment as 'just punishment' or ridicule gestures of power, they too do not do justice to history, they too mock victims." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Xi9z A city in a firestorm Some 25,000 people lost their lives over the initial three days of the attack, in which many people burned to death in the thousands of fires that burned throughout the city. The first bombings were carried out in two waves, three hours apart to hamper those trying to put out the fires. "There must have been tons of human bone meal in the ground," Kurt Vonnegut, a witness to the bombing as a US prisoner of war, wrote in his 1969 novel Slaughterhouse-Five. Another witness was Christoph Adam, an 89-year-old who attended Thursday's event in the Kulturpalast. "I was in the cellar of a big building with 40 other people," he told DW. "In the second attack I was on the street, and my family and I couldn't find anywhere to hide. The buildings were shut, the gardens were shut. I saw it for about three quarters of an hour. The whole street was on fire." Now Adam, who has himself interviewed historians about the bombing, thinks the only solution is total disarmament. "War is always terror, it escalates on both sides," he said. "We can't make any accusations against others, but we lived through this. Germany should now set an example: disarmament, banning the arms trade, banning military missions." An alternative vigil Dresden's official mourning ceremonies on February 13 always take place under a cloud of wariness. As dignitaries gather in churches and halls to listen to speeches and solemn organ music, so too does the country's far-right scene, which has turned the 1945 Dresden bombings into a symbol of how the Allies rewrote the history of World War II. Read more: Germany's far-right AfD stronghold: Life is good, but 'people are scared' For many years, there was a bitter debate about the true death toll of the attack. Using inflated numbers first propagated by the Nazi regime, neo-Nazis still portray the bombing as a war crime that murdered up to 300,000 people. A 2010 historical investigation commissioned by the city, which established that 25,000 were killed over the three nights, has done little to assuage the day's fraught atmosphere in the city, which has become a locus of far-right sentiment. Far-right demos have become a regular feature of the Dresden anniversary, an event that in recent years has been taken over by the Alternative for Germany (AfD). Another neo-Nazi group is also planning to gather in the city on Saturday. To counter the far-right processions and reclaim the commemorations, the city has organized a "human chain" through the city for the past decade. Two hundred and forty-five British Avro Lancaster bombers set course from England to Dresden, in eastern Germany, on February 13, 1945. At 9:45 p.m sirens wailed through the frosty night air, and horror rained down on the city. The Allies dropped about 250 firebombs, 3,000 demolition bombs and 400,000 incendiary bombs on Dresden, thus destroying the baroque city of 630,000 inhabitants. Within 23 minutes the city was covered by a carpet of bombs. The historic center burnt to the ground. A second wave of British bombers and a US attack the following day with more than 300 bombs razed large portions of the city. About 25,000 people died. The Dresden Cathedral, one of the largest Catholic churches in Saxony, was badly destroyed during the attack. It was built at almost the same time as the world-famous Protestant Church of our Lady, or Frauenkirche, which is located just 300 meters (1,000 feet) away. After the bombing, women removed the rubble while the men were off at war. Dresden's baroque Frauenkirche collapsed following the bombardment. The church stood in ruins in the city center until 1993 as a reminder of the destruction of war. Then it was rebuilt with public funds and donations. A British blacksmith, whose father had participated in the bombing attack as a pilot, rebuilt the tower cross to the original. From 1994 to 2005, the Frauenkirche was rebuilt, thanks largely to donations from all over the world. The total construction costs amounted to €180 million, two-thirds of which were donated. The baroque quarter around the 91-meter church has experienced a revival as a new tourist destination in Saxony's state capital. Today Dresden is once again considered one of the most beautiful cities in Germany. With its baroque facades and picturesque location on the Elbe River, the city attracts tourists from Europe and beyond. Nearly 550,000 people call the city home. In the extremist scene, the anniversary of Dresden's bombing has been used for propaganda purposes. Phrases such as "holocaust by bombing" present Germans as the victims while glossing over the country's war guilt. For years, neo-Nazis have marched through the streets on February 13 with torches and banners. Confrontations between neo-Nazis and counterdemonstrators are frequent. Conflicts are expected this year. Right-wing extremist groups, the nationalist Alternative for Germany party and initiatives such as Dresden Nazifrei (Nazi-Free Dresden) have all registered protests. About 11,000 demonstrators are likely to join the annual human chain against neo-Nazis. President Frank-Walter Steinmeier will speak at the central commemoration event at the Palace of Culture. Author: Peter Hille, Helena Kaschel Members of the AfD, Germany's most successful far-right party since the war, were on hand on Thursday. They set up an "info-point" on Dresden's Altmarkt Square ahead of a vigil in the evening, a nationalist parallel to the official commemorations. "We decided not to talk about the numbers at all this year," one AfD member told DW guardedly, referring to the procession. "It doesn't matter how many it was." "The other events try to relativize this devastating bombing of Dresden, and put it into the context of what happened around the world," Jörg Urban, head of the AfD in Saxony, told DW. "They talk about the civil wars that happen around the world, saying that this kind of thing happens everywhere, and forget that we as a city had an individual fate. For Dresdeners, commemorating the victims has always been an identity-forming event. We want to keep it as a local Dresden event." This did not impress Nora Lang, another survivor of the bombing who took part in Thursday's ceremony. "I've had enough of National Socialism. It stole 13 years of my life," she said. "Anyone who propagates that ideology has no good intentions. I regret that so many people vote for this party." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3XhXO Every day, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. Sign up for the newsletter here.