DW: Professor Bloch what specifically are you and your colleagues at the Institute for Circulatory Research and Sports Medicine at the German Sport University Cologne working on? Wilhelm Bloch: We are currently working on a major European Union research project on the therapeutic effects of highly intensive interval training on women with breast cancer. We are looking for new approaches to therapy; we want to find out what happens in the body of a cancer patient when he or she engages in sport. We are trying to find out what effect sport may have, and how it could support cancer therapy. How does this compare to your previous approach? When we started our research in 2007, the main focus was on the side effects caused by a tumor or therapy. Over time, however, it became clear that physical activity can achieve more than just limiting side effects. In what way? First, there is the preventive factor; someone who engages in sport is already doing something that helps reduce the risk of getting cancer. On the other hand, sport also helps patients recover from cancer. Currently, the focus is on using sport to enhance the effect of the principal therapy. What processes take place in the body of a cancer patient who is physically active? Sport triggers processes that help to fight the tumor. Sport doesn't cure the cancer, but it does enable the body to cope better with the cancer or it improves the effect of the therapy. A central mechanism in this regard is stimulating the immune system. Physical activity always triggers a form of stress on the immune system. This reacts by changing its control variables and activity. This in turn leads to immunological processes that have a direct influence on the cancer. What does this look like in concrete terms? One example of what we are researching is natural killer cells. These recognize tumor cells, attack them and can also destroy them. We call this lytic activity. This means how many tumor cells are dissolved by the natural killer cells. However, these killer cells vary in how aggressive they are. The activity of these cells increases in trained athletes and after exercise. There are also many other cells that react similarly in combatting cancer. Wilhelm Bloch How active are these killer cells? We assume that the body is flooded with a lot of degenerate cells each and every day. Fortunately, the body generally copes well with this. But there comes a point at which this no longer works and a nest of tumor cells settles somewhere. This can remain dormant for many years, but then suddenly a tumor starts to grow. This threat is present at all times. If you have a certain physical predisposition or genetic changes, sport won't help you prevent it. One example is skin cancer. But sport can help to slow down the small events, which is already a major benefit. We look at probabilities; like by what percentage I can reduce the risk. What sort of sporting activity should I engage in to help prevent cancer? If you walk or run moderately for six hours a week, you will reduce your risk of colon cancer by 40 percent. For prostate cancer, the risk is reduced by between 25 and 30 percent. The same applies to breast cancer. With bowel cancer in particular, good nutrition is a good means of prevention.  Being overweight increases the risk. Are there also types of cancer for which sport is of no benefit? There are a few types, such as rectal cancers, where no benefits have been demonstrated. With lung cancer there are only small benefits. But if you smoke, the effect on the development of a tumor is much greater than you could compensate through physical training anyway. In principle, however, it's true to say that physical activity reduces the risk of developing almost every kind of tumor. Like endurance training, weight training can also help reduce the risk of developing cancer How does sport support cancer therapy? Stimulating the immune system is beneficial. Exercising the right way at the right intervals also improves a patient's overall health. A fit patient can deal with more therapy than one who is less fit. A patient who isn't fit may be forced to suspend chemotherapy, because he or she simply can no longer take it physically. This increases the risk that the therapy will not be successful.  We now believe that it is almost a must to consider sports and exercise therapy when treating cancer patients. So more training is significantly better? If a patient is fit, he or she is able to withstand therapy longer or at a higher dosage. Sometimes competitive athletes can take very high dosages that one could never give a "normal" person. It would be extraordinary if that patient even survived. Which kind of training is preferable during cancer therapy, endurance or weight training? We haven't gotten far enough in our research to say for sure. In the past, we would have advised patients to do gentle, moderate endurance training. Today, patients can also do highly intensive interval training, if they are doing it right. These days we go for a combination of strength and endurance training, including some highly intensive units. We need to build up the muscles that the patient loses during therapy. Sport can be used as a kind of medication. I see sport as a form of medicine. Professor Wilhelm Bloch heads the Institute for Circulatory Research and Sports Medicine at the German Sport University Cologne, where he conducts research in the field of molecular and cellular sports medicine. His research focuses on the medical and biological reaction of tissues and organs to physical strain. He also conducts research on the effect of physical activity on cancer patients. The interview was conducted by Jörg Strohschein. In 1996, then 25-year-old US road race cyclist Lance Armstrong was diagnosed with testicular cancer, which had also spread to his brain, lungs and abdomen. His doctors gave him little chance of survival, but he went on to win the Tour de France 7 straight years from 1999 to 2005. For years he denied doping claims, but in 2013 he admitted to the use of PEDs and was stripped of all of his titles. Mario Lemieux is seen as one of the best ice hockey players of all time, having scored 1,723 points in 915 regular season NHL games. Early in 1993, though, he was diagnosed with Hodgkin's lymphoma. After undergoing two months of aggressive radiation treatments, Lemieux returned to the ice, scoring a goal and an assist in his first game back. He would go on to play eight more seasons in the NHL. Edna Campbell became a symbol to survivors of breast cancer during a career in which she played for the Sacramento Monarchs as well as three other WNBA clubs, and the US national team. Since hanging up her sneakers in 2005 she has become a trained nurse and dedicated herself to helping others by founding "Breathe and Stretch," a health-restoration program for survivors of breast cancer. In August 2006 then-Boston Red Sox pitcher Jon Lester was diagnosed with anaplastic large cell lymphoma, for which he underwent chemotherapy. In December of the same year, he was found to be free of the disease, and returned to the mound the following spring. Not only did he get the win in the final game of Boston's 2007 World Series triumph, he also tossed a no-hitter the following season. Long before his senior international career, Australian wicket-keeper Matthew Wade was diagnosed with testicular cancer at the age of 16. However, he was able to continue his career after being cleared of the disease following two rounds of chemotherapy. The left-handed batsman has represented his country in test matches, one-day internationals and in Twenty20 matches. Jamaican runner Novlene Williams-Mills (left) competed at the 2012 Summer Olympics, winning a silver medal in the 4x400 meters relay - despite the fact that she had been diagnosed with breast cancer. After the London Games she underwent a mastectomy and a further operation. She has since won a number of medals, including silver in the 4x400 meters relay at the Rio de Janeiro Games in 2016. A routine doping test led to Eintracht Frankfurt defender Marco Russ being diagnosed with testicular cancer in May 2016. After undergoing therapy, he made his return to the pitch as a late sub during Frankfurt's German Cup quarterfinal match against Arminia Bielefeld in February 2017, which they won 1-0. He also appeared in the 2018 German Cup final, in which Frankfurt beat Bayern Munich 3-1. German middle-distance runner Antje Möldner-Schmidt, who specializes in the 3,000-meters steeplechase, was diagnosed with a lymphoid cell disorder in 2010. After undergoing treatment and missing the entire 2010 season, she returned to competition at the 2011 German championships, where she finished fourth. She has since won both gold and silver medals at the European Athletics Championships. Former German international Heiko Herrlich was diagnosed with a malignant brain tumor in the autumn of 2000. Having undergone successful radiation therapy, Herrlich returned to action one year later. However the forward, who scored 75 goals in 258 appearances for Leverkusen, Mönchengladbach and Dortmund, never returned to his earlier form. He hung up his boots in 2004 to pursue coaching. Running back James Conner's Hodgkin's Lymphoma diagnosis came while he was rehabbing a torn MCL suffered in the opening game of the University of Pittsburgh's 2015 season. Following 12 rounds of chemotherapy, he was pronounced cancer free a few months later. Conner currently plays for the Pittsburgh Steelers, who made him their third-round pick (105th overall) in the 2017 NFL draft. More than half of Benjamin Köhler's appearances came with Eintracht Frankfurt in both the Bundesliga and the second division. It was after he had moved to Union Berlin that he was diagnosed with stomach cancer in early 2015. Following treatment, he was declared cancer free six months later. He called time on his career at the then second-division side at the end of the 2016-17 season. One of the latest athletes to have overcome testicular cancer is Manchester United prospect Max Taylor, who was diagnosed with it in mid-2018. The then-18-year-old underwent chemotherapy and surgery, and by last September was again healthy enough to resume training. Although he is yet to make his first team debut, he was on the bench for United's Europa League match in Kazakhstan in November. In late 2006, Robert Müller was diagnosed with a malignant brain tumor. Following surgery, chemotherapy and radiation treatment, he returned to the ice in early 2007, but the tumor continued to grow was diagnosed as terminally ill. Müller made his last appearance for the Cologne Sharks in November 2008. Following his death six months later, Germany's top ice hockey league retired his No. 80. Author: Chuck Penfold