Following its Sundance premiere in January and ahead of its release on streaming platform Hulu on March 6, Hillary, the new documentary miniseries on Hillary Diane Rodham Clinton, was screened this week at the Berlin International Film Festival. "It's about a woman who's been incredibly polarizing in American history, who's been both vilified and glorified," director Nanette Burstein told DW of her 252-minute, four-part documentary. "It's really about unpacking and understanding who that real person is, where all this mythology comes from, and what's the truth." Clinton: Not looking back on legacy yet The initial idea of the film was not to create a legacy-building document, but rather to look into the 2016 election, drawing on the nearly 2,000 hours of backstage footage from Clinton's campaign. The first woman to win the popular vote in an American presidential election, Clinton said at a press conference on Tuesday at the Berlinale that she wasn't yet ready to discuss the legacy of her pioneering political career: "I'm not looking backwards, I'm still looking forward," she said. "I'm always asking, What's next?" Read more: 'You're really busting my nuts here': Hillary Clinton trolls Trump with parody letter In its final form, the documentary goes way beyond the events of 2016, exploring the former presidential candidate's youth and her political evolution leading to that campaign. "It was entirely my idea to make it a story about her whole life," said Burstein, who convinced a reluctant Clinton that her biography could be used to look at the history of feminism and of US politics. Contributing to the film are more than 45 people who've worked or studied with Hillary, including and Bill Clinton and Barack Obama. 'Hillary' explores the rise of the Clinton mythology Still using the politician's protective shield While the goal of the film is to reveal the real person behind the former First Lady and US secretary of state, Hillary appears incapable of completely letting down her guard. She also demonstrates the unflappable determination of an experienced politician who keeps going despite tragedy and challenges. That fortitude and her ability to bounce back is something that impressed Burstein: "I don't know if could do it," she said. To realize the project, the filmmaker became the ultimate Hillary expert: "I studied her intensely, interviewing her over seven days, as well as her family, friends and journalists who've followed her, read every book on the topic, seen every piece of archival footage that has ever existed." The director found Clinton to be more accessible, candid and capable of self-reflection than she had initially expected. For instance, the politician does not hesitate to reflect on the fact that many people see her as inauthentic: "I provoke strong opinions," says Hillary in the film. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3YQc0 An image affected by gender boundaries and past scandals According to Burstein, Clinton's perceived inauthenticity especially reflects on gender politics in the US. "She's been in public life for over 30 years and she has pushed boundaries of what women have been allowed to do," the director said. "She's tried to inhabit roles that have been largely inhabited by men and that has made a lot of people uncomfortable." But the filmmaker added that gender is not the only aspect contributing to Hillary's image problem: "During the 90s, during the Clinton administration, there were a lot of scandals and accusations of corruption of all kinds. And even if they were disproven, that lingers." The First Lady who had to deal with her husband's infidelity in public now tries not to look back because it's too painful. "She's someone who's very forward-looking. But obviously [the scandals] come to haunt her all the time," said Burstein. Bill and Hillary discuss the Monica Lewinsky affair in the film Controversial statements on Bernie Sanders Another statement from the documentary came back to haunt Clinton in January. In the film, she does not hide her contempt for Bernie Sanders, her rival for the 2016 Democratic nomination for President. "Nobody likes him, nobody wants to work with him, he got nothing done. He was a career politician. It's all just baloney and I feel so bad that people got sucked into it," the former Secretary of State says. As the documentary premiered at the Sundance film festival in January, Clinton told The Hollywood Reporter that she still stood by those words. The quote was picked up by US media outlets, drawing outrage from Sanders' supporters; the hashtag #ILikeBernie trended on Twitter. Clinton somewhat clumsily tried to weaken her statement by saying, "It was like 15 seconds in a four-hour documentary." Beyond that, Burstein also feels that the news media distorted things in their reporting of that story: "When she talks — very candidly — in my film about Bernie Sanders, those were her real feelings, having run against him in 2016," said the filmmaker. She added that "the quote was taken out of context, as if she was just saying it today and trying to insert herself in the 2020 election." At the Berlin press conference, Hillary Clinton adopted a neutral stance, stating that she'd even be ready to support Sanders — without naming him directly: "I'll wait and see who we nominate, and I will support the nominee," she said. "And it won't surprise you to hear me say that I think that it's imperative that we retire the incumbent.'' Brent Goff contributed to this report. On Monday evening, the screening of "Siberia," the sixth collaboration between US director Abel Ferrara and actor Willem Dafoe (pictured on the red carpet with co-stars Giada Colagrande and Cristina Chiriac), seemed to perplex critics. "A beautiful, unhinged, sometimes hilarious trek into geographical and psychological wilderness that will delight some and mystify many others," wrote Variety. South Korean filmmaker Hong Sang-soo, who alongside Bong Joon-ho of "Parasite" fame is one of the most revered directors from the far east nation, has debuted his latest film, "The Woman Who Ran" in the Berlinale competition. A sensitive study of a woman's journey of self-discovery as she encounters three friends, the film might continue the success of the Korean new wave. The Berlinale has long promoted young actors and actresses with its European Shooting Stars awards in which 37 countries nominate one young star. Germany has chosen Jonas Dassler (seventh from left), known for his devastating performance as serial killer Fritz Honka in Fatih Akin's "The Golden Glove," which screened at the Berlinale in 2019. Nina Hoss won for Germany back in 2000. It's not every day that a politician attracts the most attention at the Berlin International Film Festival. On the fifth day of the Berlinale, former presidential candidate and US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton made her much-anticipated appearance in Berlin to promote, alongside director Nanette Burstein, the four-part docu series "Hillary." There's usually not much to laugh about in the Golden Bear competition. Serious themes predominate, political cinema triumphs. But on day 5 there was one exception. The Belgian-French directing team of Benoît Delépine and Gustave Kervern debuted the competition entry "Effacer l'historique" (Delete History), an extremely funny contemporary comedy about the brave new social media world. German arthouse director Christian Petzold's "Undine" is one of the most awaited titles at the Berlinale. He said he wanted to pursue the love story initiated in "Transit" (2018) between the characters portrayed by Paula Beer and Franz Rogowski (photo). To do so, he builds on the mythical figure of "Undine," a water spirit. A broken aquarium and a giant catfish contribute to the atmospheric work. Hong Kong democracy activist Joshua Wong (photo) has called for a boycott of the Berlinale in support of Chinese dissident Ai Weiwei, who claims that his films were "censored" by the festival to avoid harming sponsors. As the Berlin festival has done several times in the past, director Carlo Chatrian once again denied the allegations, citing other reasons for the rejection. It's the second time that Italian actor Roberto Benigni, who charmed the world with his Oscar-winning "Life is Beautiful," stars in a film version of "Pinocchio." While he portrayed the puppet in 2002, he's the carpenter Gepetto in the new film by Matteo Garrone ("Gomorrah"). "It was the realization of a dream to be both!" said an enthusiastic Benigni on Sunday, "A sign of destiny if you ask me!" His name is never mentioned, but the abusive movie mogul in "The Assistant" is inevitably inspired by Harvey Weinstein. He manages to haunt a young office assistant without ever appearing on screen. A single workday offers enough clues that he's a beast — and that everyone goes along with it. Director Kitty Green (left) and actress Julia Garner are in Berlin to present the powerful #MeToo film. He is currently one of the most sought-after actors in Germany: Lars Eidinger. In the film "Persian Lessons" by Vadim Perelman, Eidinger portrays a brutal SS officer in a Nazi concentration camp. At the press conference ahead of the world premiere on Saturday evening, he choked up discussing today's racism: "I think our society is so poisoned when it comes to hatred and resentment." Jerry Lewis, who died in 2017, is best known as the "King of Comedy," but he was also the director and star of an unreleased project that dealt with the Holocaust: the drama "The Day the Clown Cried," from 1972. Chris Lewis, Jerry's son, was at the Deutsche Kinemathek on Saturday to donate selected documents from the estate of his father, including material related to the film. The Berlinale Camera, awarded since 1986, honors creators who've made a special contribution to filmmaking and with whom the festival feels closely connected. This year, the lifetime achievement award was handed out on February 22 to Ulrike Ottinger, one of the most important German filmmakers since the 1970s. Her work as an artist has also been shown at the Venice Biennale and the Documenta. Looking for stars at the Berlinale? Then keep an eye open for Johnny Depp. He's in town for the premiere of "Minamata," in which he portrays the celebrated US photojournalist W. Eugene Smith, who in the 1970s drew worldwide attention to the devastating effects of mercury poisoning in the Japanese village of Minamata. You can watch his press conference on Facebook and Instagram. Following his arrest in 2014 and a 20-year prison sentence, Ukrainian director Oleg Sentsov was the most renowned political prisoner in the European film world. Before his release in September 2019 in a prisoner swap, he managed to direct a film from his Siberian prison cell: "Numbers" premiered at the Gorki Theater earlier this week and celebrated its red carpet Berlinale screening on Friday. The festival opened on Thursday with "My Salinger Year," starring Sigourney Weaver in the role of an old-school New York literary agent whose main goal is to protect the aging cult author J.D. Salinger from his intrusive admirers. Weaver, legendary for her Ellen Ripley role in the "Alien" films, revealed her own perspective on fans: "They are the people we work for," she said. Actor Jeremy Irons, president of this year's Berlinale jury, opened a press conference on Friday by distancing himself from controversial comments he had made in the past on sex abuse, same-sex marriage and abortion, which he claimed to have "already refuted and apologized for." Hoping "to put those past comments to bed," he emphasized his support for human rights and achievements on those issues. Succeeding longtime director Dieter Kosslick, the festival management duo Carlo Chatrian (right) and Mariette Rissenbeek (center) together kicked off their first Berlinale as directors. The festive mood on opening night was however overshadowed by the previous day's deadly racist attacks in German town of Hanau. Before the opener's screening, a minute of silence honored the victims. Author: Elizabeth Grenier, Jochen Kürten