The simple mouth and nose protector — a mask made of a rather thin paper fleece, which is knotted behind the head with ribbons - was formerly used almost exclusively in operating theaters. Doctors and assistants wear this mouthguard primarily to prevent their patients on the operating table from being infected with germs and pathogens. If the wearer of the mask coughs or sneezes, for example, most of the droplets from the mouth and throat get caught in the mask. In the long run, however, this only works if the mask is changed regularly and disposed of hygienically and safely. In surgery, doctors must change their mask at least every two hours. If, on the other hand, a mask of this type is worn repeatedly, it quickly loses its effectiveness. Read more: Coronavirus, cold or flu? How to tell the difference It has not been proven that the face masks seen above can effectively protect you against viral infections. That said, these masks are probably able to catch some germs before they reach your mouth or nose. More importantly, they prevent people from touching their mouth or nose (which most people do instinctually). If you are already sick, such masks may keep you from infecting others. In its list of recommendations onhow to protect yourself from getting infected, the World Health Organisation does not mention face masks. At the top is frequently cleaning your hands. The WHO recommends alcohol-based hand rub, like the ones seen here in a hospital. The more simple day-to-day solution is water and soap, if you've got some handy. But make sure to wash your hands thoroughly. So here's what the doctors recommend: When coughing and sneezing, cover your mouth and nose with your flexed elbow. Or use tissue — but then immediately throw that tissue away and wash your hands. With your shirt or sweater, however, no, you don't need to throw them away. Do wash them frequently, though, or take them to the dry cleaner's. Another recommendation that may not work for everybody: Avoid close contact with anyone who has fever and cough! If you have to tend to sick people, make doubly sure to take additional protective measures. If you have fever, cough and difficulty breathing, seek medical care early. Avoid public places so you don't infect others. And also, explain to your doctor where you've previously traveled. When visiting live markets in areas currently experiencing cases of the novel coronavirus, avoid direct unprotected contact with live animals. That includes any surfaces that are in contact with animals as well. Cook meat thoroughly. The consumption of raw, or undercooked, animal products should be avoided. Raw meat, milk or animal organs should be handled with care to avoid cross-contamination with uncooked foods. These are good food safety practices and help prevent the spread of illnesses. Author: Fabian Schmidt How much protection does the mask provide? The wearer of the mask can protect himself against droplet and smear infections, but only to a very limited extent. Although the virus usually enters the body through the mouth or eyes — if there are no open wounds — the hands play the most important role in transporting the virus. If you decide to wear a mask, you should probably also opt for protective goggles. The surgical masks, albeit less effective in keeping the viruses out, merely function as a constant reminder not to touch your nose with your hands when it itches. Neither should you rub your eyes. Half masks offer better protection In addition to surgical masks, which look more like multi-layer disposable kitchen towels, there are also half masks with a real filter effect. These are more familiar to thsoe who work in dusty environments or with aerosols. They are available either as disposable masks, usually made of strong pressed cellulose with a filter element and an exhalation valve, or as plastic masks in which a suitable filter is then inserted. Read more: Coronavirus vaccine — a race against time Only a FFP 3-grade mask will filter out enzymes and viruses. In the European Union these types of masks are divided into threeFFP protection classes (filtering face piece). Although masks of protection level FFP1 are still better than surgical masks, they do not offer the desired protection against viruses. They are intended for carpenters, for example, who work at a band saw with an vacuum extraction system. Workmen may wear them to catch the coarser dust, which the vacuum cleaner is unable to catch. Or a bricklayer can put them on before mixing cement with a trowel, kicking up some dust. Only FFP-3 class masks effectively protect the wearer from droplet aerosols, protein molecules, viruses, bacteria, fungi and spores, and even from highly dangerous dusts such as asbestos fibres. If a mask is needed - then it needs to be the right one Such high-quality filter masks can protect the wearer - unlike simple surgical masks - from infection due to their design. In other words, also from a highly infectious pathogen such as measles or tuberculosis. Read more: The power of masks Effective but not suitable for just everybody: Military gas mask and complete body protection. But here too, protection only works if many other protective measures are taken at the same time: Strict hygiene when putting on a mask, protective goggles, gloves and plastic apron or overall, proper disposal of possibly contaminated disposable items and regular hand washing. In addition, the surroundings must always be systematically disinfected. These masks - together with all other protective clothing - are therefore used in quarantine stations, for example, where patients who are already infected are cared for. The medical staff has to put on and take off all the protective clothing, including the protective mask, at considerable expense. For travelling in public transport or working at a keyboard at alternating workstations, which happen to be among the worst germinators of all, this effort would be completely disproportionate. And what about tear gas? The demonstrators in Hong Kong also wore a variety of different protective masks - from simple surgical masks to half masks with filters. Surgical masks are probably only effective in conceiling the demonstrators' identity. However, when the police fire tear gas grenades that spray an aerosol, only FFP-3 filters can provide some protection. To prevent the tear gas from getting into the eyes, airtight protective goggles are absolutely necessary. Read more: Proof of poison gas: Circumstantial evidence is key Only the man in the center has effective protection against tear gas. However, occupational safety filters from the hardware store do not offer any real protection. A proper full face gas mask with a military NBC filter would do the job. And of course this also provides good protection against viruses. But in everyday life nobody wants to walk around like this. Best protection: Don't forget to wash your hands All masks and goggles are of little use if the most important hygienic principles are neglected. For example, if you come home after a long bus or train ride, where you touched handrails and handles, take off the mask and scratch your nose, You could have left out the protective mask just as well. It's the same at work: if you have been typing on the computer keyboard all morning and then go to lunch without washing your hands first, you take a considerable risk. Then, wearing a mask at the computer workstation would have been of little use either. Asbestos is a collective term for various naturally occurring silicate minerals. These include grunerite, anthophyllite, actinolite and chrysotil. The fibrous material was popular both in construction and industry because of its durability, fire resistance and because it could be easily processed in cement. Visible here are asbestos' signature tiny fibers, some of which are only three micrometers thick. Here is a sample of a chrysotile. These fibers are not soluble and could therefore remain in the lungs for a very long time. They can still cause lung cancer decades after you've inhaled them. Corrugated asbestos must not be sawed, cut, drilled, ground up or broken. As long as it's not touched, there is no danger of fibers being released into the air. But even cleaning is taboo. Anyone who tries to remove the moss with a high-pressure cleaner would be committing crimes against the environment and endangering their own health. A flower box made of fiber cement, also called Eternit or asbestos cement. Here cement and asbestos combine to form a resistant but toxic building material. This box may continue to be used. However, when working with a shovel or a rake, one should be careful not to scratch the container. If you want to get rid of it, you have to dispose of it as hazardous waste. Pros repaired this clogged pipe. If you ever have drain problems with asbestos cement pipes, don't ask for a simple plumber. In a case like this, strict asbestos removal regulations need to be observed — it's time to call a specialist! Such "Floor-Flex" panels can be found in many homes today. Almost all of them contain asbestos. Here, too, safety can only be guaranteed by a laboratory test. So don't just rip the panels out and toss them in the trash. Often such floor coverings are also fastened with adhesives containing asbestos. Caution: don't try to get rid of the glue by yourself! There are often materials containing asbestos hidden under old floor coverings. If you have removed "Floor Flex" panels and find black, bituminous adhesive, take special care. The glue almost certainly also contains asbestos. Never sand it down on your own! Here the author of this gallery during the renovation of his house. A floor and ceiling had to be removed entirely because the beams were rotten. Was there any asbestos in the dusty air? It's better not to ask! Until 1989, car brake linings still contained asbestos - in high concentrations. It's possible that some of these brake pads are still in use in old cars today. Car mechanics who change brake linings and then clean the brakes with air pressure are particularly at risk. Many fibres get into the air in the workshop, which is a life-threatening hazard. Probably a case for hazardous waste. Under no circumstances should you use an older hairdryer, not even one from the 1970s. What does a hair dryer have to do with asbestos? The material is extremely heat resistant and was therefore often used as thermal insulation in the manufacturing of these ancient devices. The design may be fashionable again, but if you want to eat toast prepared by such an elegant toaster, you'd better go for a new one with a retro look. This will ensure that the supports for the heating wires are not made of asbestos. A device like this shouldn't even have a spot in your antiques cabinet. Author: Fabian Schmidt