World Health Organization (WHO) Director-General Tedros Adhanom on Monday told countries to brace for a "potential pandemic" of COVID-19. But Adhanom said the virus could still be stopped. "This virus can be contained. Indeed there are many countries that have done exactly that," he said. He praised the efforts of China, which locked down several cities in an attempt to contain the outbreak. He said a WHO joint mission to China had concluded that the virus there "peaked" between January 23 and February 2 "and has been declining steadily since then." So far, the WHO has declared the virus, which has claimed more than 2,600 lives, a global health emergency, but has not yet resorted to describing it as a pandemic. "For the moment we are not witnessing the uncontained global spread of this virus and we are not witnessing large-scale deaths," Adhanom told reporters in Geneva. However, he said that countries should be "doing everything we can to prepare for a potential pandemic. "What we see are epidemics in different parts of the world affecting countries in different ways and requiring a tailored response," he said. UN Chief Antonio Guterres urged countries to do everything possible to contain the virus. "All countries - and this is now a problem that is affecting many countries in the world — all countries must do everything to be prepared," Guterres said. "The disease it's still possible to contain but if some fail, if some do not do everything that is needed, this can still become out of control with dramatic consequences in global health and the global economy," Guterres said. Read more: Coronavirus European surge sends panic through markets Hundreds of cases in Italy Italy reported a total of six deaths and more than 220 confirmed infections on Monday. This is the most confirmed cases in Europe, and the third-most in the world after China and South Korea. Two virus clusters developed last week in the northern regions of Lombardy and Veneto, but infections have now been reported in the neighbouring regions of Emilia-Romagna and Piedmont. Some 10 towns have been sealed off, isolating more than 50,000 people. Schools, museums and universities were also closed in much of northern Italy leading to panic buying. EU health officials said they could foresee a "moderate to high" risk of more clusters in northern Italy. Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said on Monday: "The economic impact could be very strong. At this moment we can calculate that there will be a negative economic impact, we are not yet in a position to forecast what will happen." In a bid to avoid closing borders and jeapordising the EU's right to free movement, Italian authorities will meet with health ministers of neighboring countries to take coordinated action. The European Commission said it did not see a basis for reimposing border controls. Slovakia denies PM has COVID-19 Slovak Prime Minister Peter Pellegrini was admitted to hospital on Saturday with symptoms suspiciously similar to COVID-19. On Monday however, his office denied he had contracted COVID-19 after widespread speculation. "The Prime Minister is exhausted and has pneumonia, but that's all," Slovak government spokeswoman Patricia Macikova told AFP news agency. He had earlier posted a photo of himself in hospital. Fellow Slovak politician Boris Kollar, founder of the right-wing, euroskeptic party We Are Family, was also hospitalized with similar symptoms, but it was not confirmed if he had COVID-19. He had also shared bedside photos from Facebook. 12 dead in Iran as borders sealed Iran's Health Ministry confirmed on Monday that 12 people have died and 61 have been infected with the coronavirus in the country. But official figures have been thrown into question, with a member of parliament saying 50 people had died just in the city of Qom, 120 km (75 miles) south of the capital Tehran. He said a further 250 people had been quarantined there. The parliamentarian representing Qom, Ahmad Amirabadi Farahani, accused the government of being too late to announce the outbreak. Almost all the countries surrounding Iran have announced border closures or transport limits. On December 31, 2019, China notifies the World Health Organization of a string of respiratory infections in the city of Wuhan, home to some 11 million people. The root virus is unknown and disease experts around the world begin working to identify it. The strain is traced to a seafood market in the city, which is quickly shut down. Some 40 people are initially reported to be infected. Researchers initially rule out the SARS virus, the deadly respiratory illness that originated in China in 2002, killing nearly 800 people worldwide. On January 7, Chinese scientists announce they've identified a new virus. Like SARS and the common cold, it is in the coronavirus family. It is temporarily named 2019-nCoV. Symptoms include fever, coughing, difficulty breathing, and pneumonia. On January 11, China announces the first death from the coronavirus — a 61-year-old man, who had shopped at the Wuhan market, dies from complications with pneumonia. In the following days, countries such as Thailand and Japan begin to report cases of infections in people who had visited the same Wuhan market. In China, a second fatality is confirmed in the city. By January 20, three people have died in China and more than 200 are infected. Through mid-January, scientists scramble to find out how the illness is being spread among people. Coronaviruses are zoonotic, meaning they are transmitted from animals to people. Some coronaviruses can be transmitted by coughing and sneezing. Airports around the world begin screening passengers arriving from China. On January 20, officials confirm the virus can be passed directly between humans. China places Wuhan on quarantine on January 23 in an attempt to limit the spread of the virus. Transportation is suspended and workers attempt to quickly build a new hospital to treat infected patients, which total over 830 by January 24, as the death toll climbs to 26. Officials eventually extend the lockdown to 13 other cities, affecting at least 36 million people. More and more cases are confirmed outside of China, including in South Korea, the US, Nepal, Thailand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia and Taiwan. As the number of infections rises, the World Health Organization on January 23 determines that it's "too early" to declare a global public health emergency. On January 24, French authorities confirm three cases of the new coronavirus within its borders, marking the disease's first appearance in Europe. Hours later, Australia confirms four people have been infected with the respiratory virus. The Chinese Lunar New Year begins with subdued festivities on January 25. Officials cancel many major events in a bid to contain the outbreak, as millions of Chinese travel and take part in public celebrations. By late January, 17 Chinese cities, home to more than 50 million people, are in lockdown. Lunar New Year holidays are extended by three days to limit population flows. Cambodia confirms its first case, while Mongolia shuts its border with China for cars and Russia closes its borders in three regions in the Far East. The cost to global tourism is put in the billions and oil prices also plummet. The death toll rises to 41, with over 1,300 infected worldwide — mostly in China. Scientists hope to have the first coronavirus vaccines ready within three months. On January 27, German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas says Germany is considering evacuating German nationals from Wuhan. There are no reported cases in Germany yet but officials are preparing to fight the virus. German researchers in Marburg are part of international efforts to work on a possible vaccine for the coronavirus. The death toll in China reaches 81, with 2,700 affected worldwide. On January 27, Germany announces its first known case of the virus — a 33-year-old in Bavaria who contracted it during a workplace training with a visiting Chinese colleague. He is put under quarantine and observation at a Munich hospital. The following day, three of his colleagues are confirmed infected. The death toll in China reaches 132, with around 6,000 infected worldwide. On January 28, Japan and the US are the first countries to evacuate some of their citizens from Wuhan. Four of the Japanese passengers are taken to the hospital with fevers on arrival. Australia and New Zealand say they will also send planes to bring their citizens home. Global cases mount to nearly 6,000 infections, more than the 2002-03 SARS outbreak that killed roughly 800 people. On January 30, the UN's World Health Organization (WHO) declares coronavirus a public health emergency of international concern in a bid to protect countries with "weaker health systems." However, WHO Secretary-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus does not recommend trade and travel restrictions, saying these would be "an unnecessary disruption." On February 1, 124 people including 102 Germans arrive at Frankfurt airport after being evacuated from Wuhan, the epicenter of the virus, on a German Air Force flight. The evacuees are taken to military barracks in Germersheim where they are set to be quarantined for 14 days. At least two of the evacuees are said to be infected with the new virus. The first death linked to the novel coronavirus outside of China is reported in the Philippines on February 2. A 44-year-old Chinese man had traveled from Wuhan to Manila before falling ill and being taken to hospital, where he later died of pneumonia. The Huoshenshan (Fire God Mountain) Hospital in Wuhan, built in just over a week, opens on February 3. The hospital aims to use a mix of both Western and traditional Chinese medicine to treat those infected with the coronavirus. Also on February 3, the cruise ship Diamond Princess is quarantined off Yokohama in Japan after cases of the new coronavirus were found on board. As of February 17, the number of people infected has grown to more than 450, the largest cluster of cases outside of China. Several of the 3,700 passengers and crew onboard the ship are being or have been flown back to their home countries. On February 13, China's Hubei province registers the highest-ever one-day total of infections. This comes, however, after authorities announced that they had begun including people diagnosed using new clinical methods — CT scans for lung infections instead of the previous nucleic acid tests — in official statistics. Author: Cristina Burack, Elliot Douglas, Dave Raish, Kate Martyr, Timothy Jones United States has 14 more cases The US Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) announced on Monday there were 14 confirmed cases in the country. The 14 cases are in addition to the 39 cases already reported among those evacuated from the Diamond Princess cruise ship and the city of Wuhan. Health authorities have warned that that more cases are expected among the repatriated citizens. aw/bk (AFP, Reuters, AP, dpa) Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3YJpu