Several abortion-rights advocates on Tuesday called for action against Heartbeat International following the release of a report by leftist organization openDemocracy about the anti-abortion network. Heartbeat International provides anti-abortion pregnancy advice through a network of centers and affiliates. Its policies are consistent with Biblical principles and Christian ethics, according to its website. However an openDemocracy investigation revealed that some Heartbeat affiliates provided "false and misleading information" to women, and acted contrary to Heartbeat's commitment of care, which guarantees to provide "accurate information" to its clients. Undercover reporters, posing as pregnant women, visited Heartbeat-affiliated centers in 18 countries. Their investigation revealed that inaccurate information was provided at many centers in response to healthcare questions. In response to the probe, Heartbeat International told DW it stands firmly by its commitment of care "... because we know that every woman deserves love and support during an unexpected pregnancy." "No woman should feel alone, coerced, or so hopeless that she ends her child’s life through abortion." A third of all women and girls experience physical or sexual abuse in their lifetime, according to the UN. Half of the women killed worldwide were killed by their partners or members of the family. Data collected by women's advocacy group "Feminicides par compagnons ou ex"("Femicide by partner or ex") found that 74 women in France were killed by their husband or partner in 2019 so far. The year's final toll is expected to surpass last year's figures. The rate of women killed at the hands of their partner in France is among the highest in Europe, which French President Emmanuel Macron has called "France's shame." On November 25, the government unveiled new measures aimed at reducing the number of victims, including a pledge to seize firearms from abusive spouses, the creation of 1,000 new women's shelters and better police training. In Germany, figures showed that at least one woman is physically injured every hour on average at the hands of their partner. German Family Minister Franziska Giffey announced on November 25 that the government will spend €30 million ($33 million) a year over the next four years toward increasing the capacity of women's shelters. As of 2019, there were 350 shelters nationwide. Italian footballers in the country's top league, Serie A, took to the pitch with red streaks on their faces as part of a call to end violence against women. UC Sampdoria and Udinese Calcio took part in the campaign in Genoa, which coincided with International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women. In Italy, 142 women were killed through domestic violence, up 0.7% from the previous year, according to figures released Monday. Trauma surgeon Maria Grazia Vantadori in Milan came up with the idea to show the X-rays of domestic violence abuse victims at the hospital. "Our bones are all the same. So any of these could be any woman," she said Only a handful of countries in Europe, including Germany and Belgium, define rape as sex without consent. Other countries often require proof of intimidation or violence. In Brussels, Belgium, red shoes were lined up on the ground to mark International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women. Spain, Italy, Greece and France — among many other countries — do not legally define rape as sex without consent. Earlier this month, Spaniards took to the streets to protest a Barcelona court decision that sentenced five of six men accused of gang-raping a 14-year-old girl to 10 to 12 years in prison for sexually abusing the minor — but acquitted them of the more serious charge of rape. In Malaga, Spain, protesters took part in a 'Caminata del Silencio' (Walk of silence) on November 25 to denounce femicide and sexual violence against women. Each placard contains the names of all women who were killed by their partners in Spain so far this year. "Violence against women and girls is among the most widespread, and devastating human rights violations in the world, but much of it is often unreported due to impunity, shame and gender inequality," said the UN in a statement marking International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. In Guatemala, 571 women have been killed so far in 2019. Author: Stephanie Burnett Africa, Latin America and Europe probed OpenDemocracy investigators said they were pressured to continue unwanted pregnancies, even in cases of rape or where allegations of domestic violence had been made. They claimed that in Africa, Latin America and Europe, women were told that abortion can increase risks of cancer, mental illness, and problems in future pregnancies. In four unspecified countries, women were reportedly told that they needed their husbands' or boyfriends' permission to have an abortion. In one instance, a reporter — posing as a women in an abusive relationship — was told: "Now, you're a victim, but an abortion would make you part of that violence since you will be violent," openDemocracy said. Heartbeat said it stands by all of its training resources designed for the pregnancy-help community, Heartbeat International vice president, Cindi Boston-Bilotta, told DW in a statement. "With love and truth, our goal is to help the client understand abortion more fully, so that she can truly make an informed decision," she said. Read more: Abortion decriminalized in Northern Ireland 'Deeply concerning' Following the report's release, several Members of the European Parliament (MEPs) signed a letter expressing their "deep concern regarding matters related to the violation of fundamental human rights and gender discrimination." The signatories included Vera Tax (Netherlands) and Sylvie Guillaume (France) from the center-left Socialists and Democrats (S&D) group, Gwendoline Delbos-Corfield (France) from the Greens/European Free Alliance and Hilde Vautmans (Belgium) from the Renew Europe Group. Other people and organizations also expressed their concerns about the openDemocracy investigation. "The findings ... are deeply concerning and must be addressed at the appropriate levels," said Croatian MEP Fred Matic from the S&D group. Christian values "The organizations engaged in the 'crisis pregnancy counselling' often claim to be inspired by their Christian beliefs … yet they have no qualms lying to pregnant women," said Neil Datta, from the European Parliamentary Forum for Sexual and Reproductive Rights. "These groups are perpetuating harmful myths and bullying women into continuing pregnancies that they do not want," said Ana Maria Bejar, from abortion services provider Planned Parenthood. "These dangerous and abusive tactics are disempowering and put women's health and dignity at risk. No woman should ever be forced into pregnancy." "This is proof of something that we suspected and knew existed, of a campaign of lies and deceit from fundamentalist groups in the right, but we never before had this type of proof," said Mexican feminist Marta Lamas. "I am quite shocked." The openDemocracy investigation was carried out in Argentina, Canada, Costa Rica, Croatia, Ecuador, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Mexico, Nigeria, Romania, Serbia, Spain, South Africa, South Korea, Uganda, the United States and Ukraine. Cultural and legal diversity Since we work with pregnancy help organizations in more than 60 countries worldwide, we know that each country has its own abortion laws and cultural norms," Heartbeat International's Ellen Foell told DW. "The truth stands, no matter where you are in the world, that abortion ends the life of a developing human baby. While residents of different countries may communicate it in different ways, that is the definition of abortion." "Every woman has a right to know all the information before making an abortion decision. Denying women awareness of the emotional, psychological and physical risks that abortion can cause would be neglectful and dangerous," Heartbeat vice president, Betty McDowell, said. Heartbeat International told DW that it was not given enough time to respond to the individual allegations. Read more: Opinion: A triumph for women and for Ireland DW sends out a daily selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.