Spain suspended all flights in and out of Gran Canaria and all flights leaving Tenerife on Saturday after storms of red sand from Africa's Saharan desert struck the Canary Islands. A spokesperson from Spanish airport operator AENA said at least 19 flights to Gran Canaria had been diverted, but did not list all affected airlines. Saturday's air travel suspension has so far hit nearly 230 arrivals and departures, according to Spanish news agency EFE. Spanish budget airline Vueling said some of its services had been affected by the storms and said passengers should verify the status of their flights before going to the airport. The Sahara storms have severely reduced visibility as red sand swept across the islands. At Gran Canaria airport, visibility was reduced to less than 400 meters. Read more:Opinion: We have to talk about the climate Heavy winds and fire The country's national weather service warned that winds of up to 120 kph (75 mph) were expected to tear across the Canaries until Monday. The islands of Gran Canaria, Fuerteventura and Lanzarote are likely to be the worst hit. The storms also contain a high concentration of lime and dust. The local government of the Canary Islands has also recommended people who suffer from chronic respiratory diseases not to go out in the streets and if they do, to have their medication on them. The Sahara sand storm has severely reduced visibility The City Councils of Las Palmas in Gran Canaria and Puerto de la Cruz on the north coast of Tenerife announced that the weekend's carnival events have also been canceled, while the Canary Islands Football Federation suspended all of Sunday's matches. To add to the adverse weather, southwest Gran Canaria is also struggling with an  wildfire that has prompted authorities to evacuate residents in the municipality of Tasarte. The Canary Islands, located 60 miles (96.6 km) off the coast of Morocco in northwestern Africa, remain a popular tourist destination in February for Europeans. White, yellow or black: the sand on Gran Canaria's beaches comes in different colors. One of the most beautiful beaches is Playa de Amadores. It is located in the wind-protected south, like most of the seaside resorts. In the 1960s the construction boom and mass tourism began on Gran Canaria. But with a view to the sea and the feet in the warm sand, one quickly forgets the architectural misdeeds. Six kilometers (3.7 miles) of fine sandy beaches stretch along the southernmost tip of the island. Behind it lies a spectacular dune landscape, also known as the "Mini-Sahara." The shifting dunes consist of finest particles of crushed mussels and corals. Tourists like to walk here in the evening and enjoy the sunset from a sandy hill. A rainbow flag flies over a section of beach at Maspalomas: Gran Canaria is also a popular destination for the gay community. Numerous "gay-only hotels" cater to this clientele. Their meeting place is the Yumbo Center in the tourist resort of Playa del Inglés. In this shopping center there are gay bars, drag shows and darkrooms as well as once a year a gay festival with parades and parties. Several places on the coast have small harbors where yachts and boats are anchored. Puerto de Mogan is particularly attractive. The promenade is a good place to stroll, and boats can be chartered for island tours or swimming trips. At one of the piers, you can watch fishermen as they sort their catch. Freshly caught fish is you best pick in coastal resorts. It is prepared in various ways — in this case sardines on avocado with olive oil. Hake, seabream and tuna are also often on the menu. Papas Arrugadas — wrinkled potatoes, which are eaten with skin, are a good accompaniment. Spicy mojo sauce in red or green is a must — a typical Canarian dish. Those who leave the coast and head inland will after a few kilometers enter a fascinating mountain world. Serpentine roads lead high up — so narrow in many places that drivers break out in sweat. The highest mountain is the Pico de las Nieves with 1,949 meters (6,394 ft). The island's central massif blocks the sharp winds from the northeast and ensures friendly temperatures in the south. The adventurous journey is worthwhile, beside spectacular views there are picturesque villages up here: Tejeda, for example, is considered to be one of the most beautiful in Spain. The white houses are surrounded by fruit and almond trees, and there are four museums to visit in the town. Those who need a break will find several restaurants with a panorama terrace. Artenara is the highest village in Gran Canaria. Many people still live in cave dwellings carved into the volcanic rock. This is how the original inhabitants lived before the island was conquered by the Spaniards in the 15th century. One of the oldest habitation caves of Artenara is now a museum. Completely furnished, it shows the everyday life of that time. Most tourists travel to Gran Canaria to relax on the beach or by the pool. But more and more people come to hike. There are a good 300 kilometers of hiking trails across the island. A must is the five-kilometer-long tour around the Roque Nublo, which literally means cloud rock. It was once a place of worship for the indigenous people. The Cathedral of Santa Ana is the heart of the old town of Las Palmas. With its colonial-style houses, Gran Canaria's capital has a South American feel. Art, museums, theaters and concerts offer a rich cultural life. Carnival is celebrated two weeks a year — with magnificent costumes and many parties. An absolute bonus of the capital: the three-kilometer-long sandy beach! Author: Christina Deicke mvb/bk (EFE, Reuters) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.