EU foreign ministers on Monday agreed in principle on a new mission — which would include naval assets — to monitor Libya's UN arms embargo, German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said. It was later confirmed by his Italian and Austrian counterparts. "We all agreed to create a mission to block the entry of arms into Libya," said Italy's foreign minister, Luigi di Maio. Monday's decision includes measures to address concerns that the presence of European ships in the Mediterranean Sea would create a "pull factor" for migrants looking to reach the European Union from Libya. The new mission will replace Operation Sophia which was initially launched in 2015 to stop human trafficking from North Africa to Europe, while also enforcing a UN arms embargo. Reviving Sophia Operation Sophia collapsed in March 2019 under pressure from Italy's former populist government due to disagreements about distributing the people who were plucked from the sea. The bloc's foreign ministers had been exploring ways to uphold a formal cease-fire in Libya and had concluded that any peace deal would need EU support to make it work. Details of the new mission will be finalized in the weeks ahead, however it is expected to have three levels: "in the air, satellite and maritime,'' according to Luxembourgish Foreign Minister Jean Asselborn. Should the EU's foreign policy chief, Josep Borrell, consider that migrants are being drawn toward the mission in hopes of being picked up, the "maritime assets will be withdrawn from the relevant area,'' Asselborn said on Monday. Read more: EU plans to refocus 'Sophia' naval mission on Libya Protesters in Berlin hold up life jackets while taking part in a protest against the criminalization of migrant and refugee rescue operations run by NGOs. Thousands of people took part in protests in several German cities on Saturday, including Berlin, Hamburg, Hanover, Bremen, Munich and Ulm. Organizers said around 12,000 people marched in the German capital in support of the rescuers. A protester with the activist alliance Seebrücke hangs orange clothing during a protest in Hamburg to show solidarity with sea rescue workers. The sign below reads: "Sea rescue is not a crime!" Seebrücke — which means pier, or literally "sea bridge" — was formed after the German NGO ship Lifeline was prevented from docking in several harbors after rescuing over 200 migrants. A protester in Berlin holds up a sign reading: "Don't forget them at sea." According to the United Nations refugee agency, the number of people crossing the Mediterranean Sea to reach Europe is down considerably from previous years. Despite this, it's been one of the deadliest years in the Mediterranean. Over 1,400 people died or went missing while making the crossing from Africa so far this year. In recent weeks, several NGO ships operating in the Mediterranean have come under fire by European politicians who have either blocked their entry into harbors or delayed their docking. EU leaders accuse the ships of playing into the hands of human traffickers, while the NGOs argue that many people would die if their ships were not allowed to operate. A man carries a sign reading: "Seebrücke instead of Seehofer" — a reference to German Interior Minister Horst Seehofer's hard-line stance on migration and his repeated threats to unilaterally tighten Germany's borders. Seehofer's power struggle with Chancellor Angela Merkel threatened to topple the government last week, before they reached a compromise that took on some of Seehofer's demands. Many of the protesters also urged for safer routes for migrants and refugees as they try to reach Europe. They also called for a rejection of the "Fortress of Europe" mentality of several European leaders who want to clamp down on asylum-seekers moving through Europe's open borders. Author: Rebecca Staudenmaier (with AFP, dpa, epd) Monitoring the cease-fire "A cease-fire requires someone to take care of it," Borrell, said last month. You cannot say, 'this is a cease-fire' and forget about it ... Someone has to monitor it, to manage it." Borrell also said the EU's naval mission off the Libyan coast could be "revived." A cease-fire in Libya was initiated by Turkey and Russia in mid-January. European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen cautioned that the United Nations should lead the process of rebuilding war-scarred Libya. Security risk to Europe "A cease-fire, yes it is a first step in the right direction, but what you need is a process of consolidation, of reconstruction and a government of unity," von der Leyen told reporters last month after a meeting with Luxembourg Prime Minister Xavier Bettel. "There is a long way to go. This has to be a UN-led process. This is of utmost importance." Earlier in January, Italy's foreign minister said that Libya posed a security risk to Europe that the European Union must address. "Libya at the moment poses a risk to Europe on migration and also on terrorism," Luigi Di Maio told reporters following a meeting with his British, French and German counterparts. At a Libya summit in Berlin, the EU had vowed to do whatever was necessary to implement a United Nations arms embargo and any ceasefire. Read more: Migration worries shouldn't block EU Libya mission, German foreign minister says What is the Libya conflict? Since the overthrow of long-standing ruler Moammar Gadhafi in 2011, Libya has been in a state of flux. The UN-recognized Government of National Accord (GNA) under Prime Minister Fayez Sarraj holds the capital Tripoli, but since last April, it has been under sustained attack by rebel general Khalifa Haftar's Libyan National Army (LNA), which is supported by a rival administration based in the eastern city of Tobruk. kw/ng (AP, EFE, dpa) Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/342gv Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.