Israel on Thursday approved nearly 1,800 new settler homes in the occupied West Bank. The Israeli Defense Ministry said that a planning committee had "approved the construction of 1,800 housing units, according to the proposal of the Minister of Defense Naftali Bennett." "We don't wait, we act," said Bennett, a nationalist lawmaker of the New Right. "We will not give an inch of the land of Israel to the Arabs, but for that, we must build there." Thursday's announcement marked the second major settlement declaration in a single week. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said on Tuesday that 3,500 new illegal settler homes would be constructed in the strategically sensitive E1 region in occupied West Bank, passing from Jerusalem to Jericho. The Israeli government, whose right-wing prime minister also faces a corruption trial, has been making a string of promises to expand illegal Jewish settlements as the country heads to the polls on March 2. Read more: Opinion: Trump's Middle East 'peace plan' delivers neither United Nations Security Council Resolution 242, passed on November 22, 1967, called for the exchange of land for peace. Since then, many of the attempts to establish peace in the region have referred to 242. The resolution was written in accordance with Chapter VI of the UN Charter, under which resolutions are recommendations, not orders. A coalition of Arab states, led by Egypt and Syria, fought Israel in the Yom Kippur or October War in October 1973. The conflict eventually led to the secret peace talks that yielded two agreements after 12 days. This picture from March 26, 1979, shows Egyptian President Anwar Sadat, his US counterpart Jimmy Carter and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin after signing the accords in Washington. The US and the former Soviet Union came together to organize a conference in the Spanish capital city of Madrid. The discussions involved Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, and Palestinians — not from the Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO) — who met with Israeli negotiators for the first time. While the conference achieved little, it did create the framework for later, more productive talks. The negotiations in Norway between Israel and the PLO, the first direct meeting between the two parties, resulted in the the Oslo I Accord. The agreement was signed in the US in September 1993. It demanded that Israeli troops withdraw from West Bank and Gaza and a self-governing, interim Palestinian authority be set up for a five-year transitional period. A second accord was signed in 1995. US President Bill Clinton invited Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak and PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat to the retreat in July 2000 to discuss borders, security, settlements, refugees and Jerusalem. Despite the negotiations being more detailed than ever before, no agreement was concluded. The failure to reach a consensus at Camp David was followed by renewed Palestinian uprising, the Second Intifada. The Camp David negotiations were followed first by meetings in Washington and then in Cairo and Taba, Egypt — all without results. Later the Arab League proposed the Arab Peace Initiative in Beirut in March 2002. The plan called on Israel to withdraw to pre-1967 borders so that a Palestinian state could be set up in the West Bank and Gaza. In return, Arab countries would agree to recognize Israel. The US, EU, Russia and the UN worked together as the Middle East Quartet to develop a road map to peace. While Palestinian Prime Minister Mahmoud Abbas accepted the text, his Israeli counterpart Ariel Sharon had more reservations with the wording. The timetable called for a final agreement on a two-state solution to be reached in 2005. Unfortunately, it was never implemented. In 2007 US President George W. Bush hosted a conference in Annapolis, Maryland, to relaunch the peace process. Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas took part in talks with officials from the Quartet and over a dozen Arab states. It was agreed that further negotiations would be held with the goal of reaching a peace deal by the end of 2008. In 2010, US Middle East Envoy George Mitchell convinced Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to agree to and implement a ten-month moratorium on settlements in disputed territories. Later, Netanyahu and Abbas agreed to relaunch direct negotiations to resolve all issues. Negotiations began in Washington in September 2010, but within weeks there was a deadlock. A new round of violence broke out in and around Gaza late 2012. A ceasefire was reached between Israel and those in power in the Gaza Strip, which held until June 2014. The kidnapping and murder of three Israeli teenagers in June 2014 resulted in renewed violence and eventually led to the Israeli military operation Protective Edge. It ended with a ceasefire on August 26, 2014. Envoys from over 70 countries gathered in Paris, France, to discuss the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians. Netanyahu slammed the discussions as "rigged" against his country. Neither Israeli nor Palestinian representatives attended the summit. "A two-state solution is the only possible one," French Foreign Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said at the opening of the event. Despite the year's optimistic opening, 2017 brought further stagnation in the Israeli-Palestinian peace process. A deadly summer attack on Israeli police at the Temple Mount, a site holy to both Jews and Muslims, sparked deadly clashes. Then US President Donald Trump's plan to move the embassy to Jerusalem prompted Palestinian leader Abbas to say "the measures ... undermine all peace efforts." US President Donald Trump presented a peace plan that freezes Israeli settlement construction but retains Israeli control over most of the illegal settlements it has already built. The plan would double Palestinian-controlled territory, but asks Palestine to cross a red line and accept the previously constructed West Bank settlements as Israeli territory. Palestine rejected the plan outright. Author: Aasim Saleem Outrage and support Thursday's announcement was lauded by the Yesha council, according to Agence France-Presse. The council represents Jewish settlers throughout the West Bank. "This decision strengthens the Israeli presence in Judea and Samaria and we are delighted," the council's head David Elhayani said in a statement, referring to the West Bank by its biblical name. Critics and members of the international community have denounced the construction of new settlements in the E1 region on the basis that it would split the West Bank in two, further undermining the prospect of a future Palestinian state. More to come UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said his organization supports two states living in peace and security within recognized borders on pre-1967 lines. Israel seized the West Bank and east Jerusalem in the Six-Day War of 1967. The Jerusalem-based anti-settlement non-profit Peace Now confirmed that a total of 1,739 homes were in the plans and that 92% of them were deep inside the West Bank. The organization added that 1,036 were approved through a first major stage, while 703 met a final major obstacle. In a separate case, a new industrial park was approved for construction near the Palestinian city of Qalqilya in the West Bank, Peace Now said. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3GRfb Competing for the vote Bennett's nationalist Yemina coalition and Netanyahu's right-wing Likud are competing for the votes of Israel's more than 600,000 settlers. "In the battle over the settler right-wing vote, Bennett and Netanyahu are dragging Israel to invest in thousands of harmful and unnecessary settlement units," Peace Now said. The Middle East peace plan, unveiled by US President Donald Trump on 28 January, demanded Palestinians to accept West Bank settlements, causing widespread outrage across the region as well as the European Union. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Wwj4 mvb/ls (AFP, AP) DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up for it here.