The latest figures available indicate that over 600 people have died in China to date, making the virus more lethal than the SARS epidemic of 2002-03, which killed a total of 349 people in China. Authorities say that more than 30,000 people are known to have been infected, with some experts warning that the exact figure could be much higher. Twenty-two people in Japan are being treated for the illness, some of whom are Chinese tourists who were taken ill after arriving in the country, and with little sign that health experts are bringing the outbreak under control, there have already been rumors that the Japanese government is considering cancelling the Olympics. Read more: Coronavirus: Everything you need to know The subject "Tokyo Olympics will be cancelled due to coronavirus" has been trending on Japanese Twitter feeds, with one message declaring that the Games "need to be cancelled to limit the spread of the coronavirus. There is a good chance that the virus will break out if millions of Chinese come to see the event." Another Twitter message said, "The Tokyo Olympics should be cancelled or postponed until next year," while another message pointed out that the World Athletics Indoor Championship, due to be held in the Chinese city of Nanjing in March, has been put off until next year. Read more: Coronavirus cases spread fear in East Asian countries Tokyo is scheduled to host Olympic Games from July 24 to August 9 Prime minister calms concerns Prime Minister Shinzo Abe was on Monday asked about the impact of the virus on the Olympics during a Diet session, but he played down the concerns. "We will respond appropriately, while closely cooperating with the World Health Organization (WHO) and other international organizations so that we can proceed with the preparations without letting it affect the Tokyo Olympics and Paralympics." Read more: Coronavirus: Asian Football Confederation postpones more football matches Seiko Hashimoto, the minister with responsibility for the Olympics, echoed the government's position that there are no plans to cancel or postpone the Olympics, adding that ministers and local government officials are due to meet next weeks to discuss possible precautions. The organizers of the Games are equally adamant about going ahead with the event. In a statement issued to DW, an official said, "Countermeasures against infectious diseases constitute an important part of our plans to host a safe and secure Games. Tokyo 20202 will continue to collaborate with all relevant organizations, which carefully monitor any incidence of infectious diseases and we will review any countermeasures that may be necessary with all relevant organizations." The Japan Olympic Committee is introducing a number of precautions for its members, however, cancelling a scheduled four-day visit to Beijing from February 25 for discussions with other nations ahead of the 2022 Winter Olympics, which are due to be held in the Chinese capital. Read more: China: Doctor who raised alarm on coronavirus dies of disease Dominating the headlines Despite the government's assurances that no effort will be spared to contain the spread of the disease, to halt further infections and to treat anyone who has been taken ill, there is still widespread concern in Japan about the virus, which is dominating the headlines. The Japanese government was preparing to send a fourth charter flight to the Chinese city of Wuhan on Wednesday evening, to evacuate around 200 Japanese nationals and their immediate family members, while a cruise ship is still quarantined off the port of Yokohama with 2,665 passengers and 1,045 crew aboard. Read more: Do Asians face discrimination in Germany due to coronavirus? A Hong Kong resident in his 80s was taken ill after disembarking from the vessel earlier in the week and health authorities have confirmed that 10 people aboard the ship have now been confirmed as having contracted the illness. For the anti-Olympics pressure group "Tokyo No Olympics 20202," the coronavirus outbreak is just another reason why the Games should be cancelled. "We want the Games to be called off because of the environmental damage that they cause and because of the high cost of hosting this event," said Misako Ichimura, a spokeswoman for the group. "And now we know that the people who come to Japan might bring this illness with them," she said. "We are not discriminating against Chinese people in any way and we know the illness could come from other parts of the world, but this is just another reason why the Games should not go ahead." Other residents of the Japanese capital share some of those concerns. "I applied for tickets for several events, but now I'm quite happy that I did not get any in the lottery," said Kanako Hosomura, a 37-year-old housewife. Read more: Did China's authoritarianism actually help the coronavirus spread? In 2019, Chancellor Angela Merkel visited the Webasto plant in Wuhan, China. The factory is now closed. The medical tech division of Siemens, on the other hand, does not anticipate increasing demand for its X-ray machines and computer tomographs. "I wouldn't overestimate the short-term opportunity to do business with it. It doesn't go that quickly," said Siemens Healthineers CEO Bernd Montag. Chemical companies on the other hand see an opportunity. Lanxess is seeing increased demand for its disinfectant Rely+On Virkon. The antiseptic is used to disinfect hard surfaces and equipment and can be effective against the coronavirus and, especially in China, it will be used more, the company said. Currently they are working to deliver additional quantities as quickly as possible. At Yum China's fast food chains KFC and Pizza Hut the doors are closed. Luckin Coffee is also offline. The Swedish fashion chain H&M closed about 45 branches in China and the jeans manufacturer Levi Strauss about half of its stores. However, experts assume that the effects on many stores will be small as a lot of their business is now done online. Like US competitor Nike, German sporting goods manufacturer Adidas temporarily closed many of its own stores in China. In addition, franchise business will be closely monitored. However, it is still too early to assess the effects. In any case, there will be no big advertising events like this one with French soccer star Paul Pogba in Hong Kong 2017. The epidemic could have "an enormous economic impact," especially for the German car industry, according to car industry expert Ferdinand Dudenhöffer. Volkswagen's 33 plants (here the group's own test track in Xinjiang) and its joint ventures in China will remain closed until the weekend, but so far planned deliveries are not at risk. At Daimler, maker of the Mercedes brand (here a Maybach on show in Beijing), the majority of Chinese production is due to start again next Monday. However, the company is increasingly focusing on having people work from home. At BMW, production in Shenyang is also expected to start again on Monday. Distributors are now already working from home, too. Japanese carmaker Honda plans to keep its three car plants in Wuhan closed longer for the Chinese New Year holiday. The plants, which are operated together with Chinese manufacturer Dongfeng, will stay idle until at least February 13, a spokesman said. It is not yet clear whether production will then restart, as the company will follow the guidelines of the local authorities. The virus is increasingly becoming a problem for complex global interlinked supply chains. The auto industry is a good example of this. The South Korean manufacturer Hyundai will suspend all of its domestic production this week, because necessary parts that are normally delivered from China are not coming. Analysts believe that similar problems will soon affect many companies. Some impacts are already noticeable in Germany, too. Partly because of the risk of infection, fewer visitors are expected at the "Ambiente" consumer goods fair in Frankfurt. This is partially the result of the reduced flight connections from China, said a spokesman for the trade fair organizer. Lufthansa and other international airlines have cut their connections to mainland China. A quarantine hall at Frankfurt Airport has already been set up for coronavirus evacuees. In 2018, there were more than 1 million people who arrived from China. Most passengers from China arriving in Germany usually land in Frankfurt. The most important Chinese hubs with connections to Germany are the airports in Beijing, Shanghai and Hong Kong. There are no direct flights to and from Wuhan. Author: Dirk Kaufmann Staying safe "Before, everyone was worried about how hot it was going to be in the summer and how we were going to stay cool, but now everyone is talking about how they are going to stay safe from this virus," Hosomura said. "It's becoming hard to buy face masks, and I have friends who are choosing not to go out to places where they know there will be a lot of people. I've seen some shocking images from Wuhan, with dead people on the street, and it frightens me to think that the same thing could happen here." Even if the outbreak is brought under control by July, Japan's hopes that the Games would serve as a showcase for the nation as a tourist destination are likely to have been dented. The national government had hoped to attract 40 million foreign visitors this year, many of them with spectator tickets for Olympic events, but tourism industry officials are reporting that around 400,000 Chinese have already cancelled flights and hotel reservations, and that figure will inevitably climb. Read more: Why a coronavirus upsurge could be devastating for South Asia On December 31, 2019, China notifies the World Health Organization of a string of respiratory infections in the city of Wuhan, home to some 11 million people. The root virus is unknown and disease experts around the world begin working to identify it. The strain is traced to a seafood market in the city, which is quickly shut down. Some 40 people are initially reported to be infected. Researchers initially rule out the SARS virus, the deadly respiratory illness that originated in China in 2002, killing nearly 800 people worldwide. On January 7, Chinese scientists announce they've identified a new virus. Like SARS and the common cold, it is in the coronavirus family. It is temporarily named 2019-nCoV. Symptoms include fever, coughing, difficulty breathing, and pneumonia. On January 11, China announces the first death from the coronavirus — a 61-year-old man, who had shopped at the Wuhan market, dies from complications with pneumonia. In the following days, countries such as Thailand and Japan begin to report cases of infections in people who had visited the same Wuhan market. In China, a second fatality is confirmed in the city. By January 20, three people have died in China and more than 200 are infected. Through mid-January, scientists scramble to find out how the illness is being spread among people. Coronaviruses are zoonotic, meaning they are transmitted from animals to people. Some coronaviruses can be transmitted by coughing and sneezing. Airports around the world begin screening passengers arriving from China. On January 20, officials confirm the virus can be passed directly between humans. China places Wuhan on quarantine on January 23 in an attempt to limit the spread of the virus. Transportation is suspended and workers attempt to quickly build a new hospital to treat infected patients, which total over 830 by January 24, as the death toll climbs to 26. Officials eventually extend the lockdown to 13 other cities, affecting at least 36 million people. More and more cases are confirmed outside of China, including in South Korea, the US, Nepal, Thailand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia and Taiwan. As the number of infections rises, the World Health Organization on January 23 determines that it's "too early" to declare a global public health emergency. On January 24, French authorities confirm three cases of the new coronavirus within its borders, marking the disease's first appearance in Europe. Hours later, Australia confirms four people have been infected with the respiratory virus. The Chinese Lunar New Year begins with subdued festivities on January 25. Officials cancel many major events in a bid to contain the outbreak, as millions of Chinese travel and take part in public celebrations. By late January, 17 Chinese cities, home to more than 50 million people, are in lockdown. Lunar New Year holidays are extended by three days to limit population flows. Cambodia confirms its first case, while Mongolia shuts its border with China for cars and Russia closes its borders in three regions in the Far East. The cost to global tourism is put in the billions and oil prices also plummet. The death toll rises to 41, with over 1,300 infected worldwide — mostly in China. Scientists hope to have the first coronavirus vaccines ready within three months. On January 27, German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas says Germany is considering evacuating German nationals from Wuhan. There are no reported cases in Germany yet but officials are preparing to fight the virus. German researchers in Marburg are part of international efforts to work on a possible vaccine for the coronavirus. The death toll in China reaches 81, with 2,700 affected worldwide. On January 27, Germany announces its first known case of the virus — a 33-year-old in Bavaria who contracted it during a workplace training with a visiting Chinese colleague. He is put under quarantine and observation at a Munich hospital. The following day, three of his colleagues are confirmed infected. The death toll in China reaches 132, with around 6,000 infected worldwide. On January 28, Japan and the US are the first countries to evacuate some of their citizens from Wuhan. Four of the Japanese passengers are taken to the hospital with fevers on arrival. Australia and New Zealand say they will also send planes to bring their citizens home. Global cases mount to nearly 6,000 infections, more than the 2002-03 SARS outbreak that killed roughly 800 people. On January 30, the UN's World Health Organization (WHO) declared coronavirus a public health emergency of international concern in a bid to protect countries with "weaker health systems." However, WHO Secretary-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus did not recommend trade and travel restrictions, saying these would be "an unnecessary disruption." On February 1, 124 people including 102 Germans arrived at Frankfurt airport after being evacuated from Wuhan, the epicenter of the virus, on a German Air Force flight. The evacuees were taken to military barracks in Germersheim where they were set to be quarantined for 14 days. At least two of the evacuees were said to be infected with the new virus. The first death linked to the novel coronavirus outside of China was reported in the Philippines on February 2. A 44-year-old Chinese man had traveled from Wuhan to Manila before falling ill and being taken to hospital, where he later died of pneumonia. The Huoshenshan (Fire God Mountain) Hospital in Wuhan, built in just over a week, opened on February 3. The hospital aimed to use a mix of both Western and traditional Chinese medicine to treat those infected with the coronavirus. Author: Cristina Burack, Elliot Douglas, Dave Raish, Kate Martyr