Mali's largest private radio station, Radio Kledu, recently aired a special program about teachers' long-running strike for higher pay. The lunchtime show presenter Oumou Dembele first interviewed teacher union representatives to hear their side of things. A little later, the government had a chance presents its version on air. It is part of Radio Kledu's editorial policy to give everyone a platform to express their opinion. In a country that ranks 116th on the  Reporters Without Borders Press Freedom Index, and where terrorist groups often target journalists, giving different sides a voice isn't an easy task. "We often encounter problems doing our job," presenter Oumou Dembele told DW. It's difficult for reporters to access to certain regions because of armed groups, especially in the northern region, Dembele said. Read also: Celebrating World Radio Day Radio: Africa's most important source of information For many in Mali, the work of radio journalists like Dembele is vital to keeping them informed. Only around 30% of people in Mali have access to mobile internet. In rural regions, where even less people have internet access, and where the power supply is unreliable, most rely on battery-operated radio sets for information. "Radio reaches far more people than any other media on the continent," Franz Krüger, Director of the Wits Radio Academy in South Africa, told DW. Even in developed and media-savvy countries like South Africa, more than 90 percent of people listen to the radio. For Krüger, as well as being accessible to more people, radio as a medium has several other advantages. "Radio can be produced cheaply and reaches the disadvantaged faster," Krüger said. Community radio stations in Africa allow isolated or minority communities to hear about, and discuss, local issues Radio stations and social media To use DW as an example – although DW's TV, online and social media programs are growing in popularity in sub-Saharan Africa, radio programs still make up more than half of the broadcaster's output in Africa. As Franz Krüger points out, despite more digital offerings, people still like radio. "Numbers show that radio has hardly lost any audience due to the growth of social media," he said. What is changing is how people listen to radio. As well as often using their cell phones, which in many African countries come with a built-in FM receivers, people are listening in to their favorite programs via Facebook, Twitter and other platforms. Although podcasts and other audio-on-demand formats have become increasingly important in Europe and North America in recent years, the classic linear radio program still dominates in Africa, according to Krüger. This has to do with the high prices for mobile data in African countries as well as listening habits, Krüger said. Linear radio works better than other media when people want something playing in the background and therefore has a permanent place in people's everyday lives, he said. These women in northern Ghana still use their old radio to listen to developmental programs Radio – room for expansion According to Franz Krüger, radio is yet to reach its full potential in Africa. In many countries, radio frequencies aren't open to to private providers, and it can also be difficult for non-commercial radio, such as community stations, to gain a broadcasting license. Some countries, such as Zimbabwe and Uganda, have seen a tentative liberalization of the market. However, broadcasting licenses are often granted to those close to the government, which limits press independence. On the other hand, where the media landscapes are already freer, such as in South Africa, Krüger sees a trend towards more program diversity – thanks to new digital broadcasting technologies such as DAB (Digital Audio Broadcasting) and DAB+. "I think there will be more offering in the future that appeal to smaller target groups." Audio providers in Africa have a great future - if they manage to remain flexible and use new technologies and platforms, according to Krüger. Mobile phones have in-built FM radio receivers making it easy for people to tune in to stations without having to carry around a bulky radio set World Radio Day 2020 – in the name of diversity "Radio is one of the media of the future," said UNESCO Secretary-General Audrey Azoulay in an audio message for World Radio Day on February 13. "On this World Day, we celebrate the power of radio to reflect and promote diversity in all its forms," Azoulay said. "Without the radio, the world would be less free, and there would be less cultural diversity." Back at Mali's Radio Kledu, journalist Mahamadou Kane is also full of praises for the radio. "Whether you are taking a shower or driving a car, no matter what you do, you can listen to the radio," he told DW. "That is what makes radio so charming and this is why we love radio. And that's why we fight every day to inform our listeners all over the world." "DW has really earned the right to celebrate its 60th birthday! DW has interested and impressed me for many years. DW has always brought me reliable and professional news covering Germany and the world. I immigrated to the USA in 1950 and started a family in 1955. Our daughter Susanne painted you a picture for your 60th birthday. Warm greetings from my family and me!" "With the help of DW, I’ve learned German! I may only be a few months older than DW, but throughout my life DW has always given me the chance to learn. Many heartfelt thanks and have a very happy birthday!" "Happy 60th anniversary! I started listening to DW 10 years ago in 2003. It’s really a pity that you are no longer on shortwave. I used to listen to DW’s Chinese broadcast every morning with my mom. Now we listen to your broadcast online at dinner time every day. Thanks for the objective information you bring us daily. and thanks to Ms. Andrea Schulz and DW China for all of the great work!" "I would like to wish DW a very happy 60th birthday! Keep up the good work! Your programming is unique, interesting and very informative. For me not a day goes by without DW. The programming from DW is so good that you could spend the entire day in front of the TV! Heartfelt greetings from my family and me!" "Have a wonderful birthday party! I really like to watch DW because it is refreshing to see about what is going on all over the world." "Hello Deutsche Welle, We have been living in Canberra, Australia since 1964. Our picture shows us in 1965 on the Gold Coast, the surfer’s paradise in Queensland. We watch DW all the time and would like to wish you all a lovely 60th birthday. Keep up the good work! Greetings from Elvira, Frank and Friedhelm." "Happy 60th Birthday! I was born and raised in Argentina but have lived in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, for 15 years. I am always really happy with the different issues covered by DW. It enables me to freshen up on my German, because very little German is spoken here. Kind greetings from sunny Florida." "I remember using my brother's wooden shortwave radio to tune in, and I cannot believe that we are in another era, the digital age. Today, I use DW to instruct my children, nephew and niece and have just showed them how to see the world from the same village with DW online, on the air and by text message." "Dear friends of My DW! We would like to congratulate all of you on your 60th birthday. We were always faithful and regular listeners of DW’s radio programs for many years (with the help of a Grundig shortwave radio) and we are now of course enthusiastic fans of DW’s television programming and online platforms." "Congratulations for your extraordinary work! We are wishing you more great journalistic achievements! We would like you to understand that for all of us from around the world, you mean much more than just a source of information. By the professionalism that you apply in spreading reliable and impartial information on any subject you're dealing with, you are creating a global community of people." "My best wishes to DW for celebrating 60 glorious years! The first time I caught DW was on Shortwave, 26 years ago, when I was a school student. It was quite exciting in those days to listening to the radio from a country so far away. That time I knew very little about Germany. After listening regularly to DW, I am now very well informed about Germany, its art, culture and economy. Long live DW!" "DW has been in my life for so long. It has always been a source of knowledge, values and entertainment as well as a door to new insights and personal growth. On your birthday, the pleasure is all mine – because I can congratulate you for all of your achievements. The world is grateful and so am I." "I am very impressed by the variety and internationality of the issues. I visit dw.de all the time for news and to improve my German. For me DW stands for professionalism, intercultural competence and fun! I’ll just say one more thing; whoever hasn’t heard about DW yet is missing out!" "DW is 60 years old? Let’s party! My experience with DW has always been wonderful, fantastic and amusing. Because practice makes perfect, I use DW as an opportunity to improve my German. Thank you DW and have a very happy 60th birthday!" "I first became acquainted with DW when I was a 14-year-old schoolgirl and I can proudly say today that I have been familiar with this important source of information for a very long time. Thanks to DW my German is constantly improving and I always know what is going on in the world." "If you are learning German then you know about DW! Almost every day I read the news on dw.de. At the beginning it was just a chance to read in German but because the articles are well researched and internationally oriented it was soon like my daily newspaper. Thank you very much to all DW employees and have a very happy birthday!" "I associate DW with a global point of view. Not only can you learn about the entire world with DW, you can also learn a lot of new things. It is great and also a huge help that DW is offered in so many languages. I don’t have to worry or think about the reliability of the content on DW, I am sure that I can count on it." "I have lived in many parts of the world from the Fiji islands to Australia and it isn’t always easy to find German learning material everywhere. I was therefore very pleased three years ago to discover what DW has to offer. I would have liked to have heard about DW earlier but like we say, “better late than never!” I wish DW an awesome birthday!" "For me DW is a good friend and the best German teacher. I always find it a lot of fun to learn German with DW and my life has become a lot more interesting because of DW. I would like to congratulate my dear DW on its 60th birthday and wish them success for the future." "I am very happy about DW’s 60th birthday and would like to send my heartfelt congratulations! I learn something new every time I visit dw.de and that always warms my heart. I keep my fingers crossed and wish all the best that DW will succeed and continue to be loved around the world!" "I would like to wish DW a very happy 60th birthday. You haven’t aged a single day!" "I had my first experience with DW in the summer of 2012. At the time I had the chance to participate in the international German language Olympics and I was interviewed there by DW. I first discovered all of the cool things DW has to offer after the contest." "For me DW is like a guiding light in a sea of information. I am very thankful for those people who try every day to be informative, entertaining and helpful to others. The creative and professional work of the DW team does this every day. Variety, support, inspiration and positive feelings – this is what DW means to me."