Thousands of people took to the streets of the central German city of Erfurt on Saturday to demonstrate against political coalitions with the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) party. The protest was the latest response to a controversial vote that saw politician Thomas Kemmerich elected as premier of the state of Thuringia after the business-friendly FDP and center-right Christian Democrats (CDU) made a secret pact with the anti-immigration, anti-Islam AfD. The decision broke a political taboo in Germany and caused nationwide outrage.caused nationwide outrage, and prompted the resignation of German Chancellor Angela Merkel's likely successor Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer as head of the ruling CDU. Many protesters held up placards which read: "No pact with fascists" or "No place for Nazis" as they gathered at Erfurt cathedral square. Police are expecting 10,000 people for Saturday's march in Erfurt Busloads of activists Organizers said at least 50 busloads of people from all over Germany had descended on the city for the rally. "By making a pact with the AfD, the CDU and FDP opened the door of power to the extreme right," said a spokeswoman for Unteilbar. Thanks to the unrelenting protests, "we as civil society have managed to slam this door shut again." Michael Rudolph, chair of the DGB Hesse-Thuringia branch told German broadcaster MDR that Saturday's demo would not be the end of the protest against the vote. The scandal in Thuringia unfolded when Kemmerich, an FDP politician was elected on February 5 thanks to the AfD's votes. In the face of massive pressure from Berlin, he resigned after just three days in office. Parallel demo in Dresden Anti-fascist counter-demonstrators were also expected to come head-to-head with a far-right march on Saturday in Dresden. Right-wing extremist groups have traditionally co-opted the remembrance day for the allied bombing of Dresden on February 13, 1945 to push a far-right agenda. Dana Regev, DW's correspondent reported that around 1000 neo-Nazis are expected with larger numbers expected for the counter-demonstration.  The counter-demonstration is united under the slogan of "disrupt Nazis." Police say they expect the situation to be "combative." The march follows a day of state commemorations for the victims on the 75th anniversary of the bombing of Dresden. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3SR7R mm,kmm/aw (dpa,AFP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.