The African Union's theme for the year is "Silencing the Guns." It's a continuation of the stated 2013 goal by heads of AU states to rid the continent of violent conflict by 2020. On Monday, South African President Cyril Ramaphosa was sworn in as the AU chairman for a one-year term. His country is an economic and political heavyweight. It also holds a seat on the UN Security Council through the end of the year. This presents an opportunity to, among other things, repair ties between AU members and the United Nations. DW's Ludger Schadomsky Some AU leaders have expressed their preference for Ramaphosa — who, in addition to his long political career, has had considerable success as a business tycoon — to focus more on economics than conflict. There are plans to launch the African Continental Free Trade Area in July, though there is much to do before that will become a reality. Read more: What's left of Nelson Mandela's gratitude to Africa? African nations could, however, certainly benefit from renewed peace efforts. Currently, there are active violent conflicts in Burkina Faso, the Ivory Coast, Guinea, Cameroon, Somalia, South Sudan and the Central African Republic. Ethiopia, where the AU is headquartered, could see serious ethnic clashes break out when voters head to polls later in the summer. Then there is Libya. In his inaugural speech over the weekend, Ramaphosa announced a fresh initiative toward peace in the North African country. AU leaders were disappointed that neither the UN nor their counterparts in the European Union had included them in peace efforts. But that should not come as a surprise. Even though the AU has vowed "African solutions for African problems," member states have failed to collect even half of the $400 million (€366 million) planned for their Libya fund. And South Africa's army, which previously participated in numerous UN peacekeeping missions, is badly underfunded: The country has reduced its defense spending to just 1% of GDP. Ramaphosa cannot offer South African troops. Maybe Zimbabwe's efforts to mediate will prove more promising. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3XZYv Nepotism and xenophobia Twenty-five years after the abolition of Apartheid rule in South Africa, the country that Archbishop Desmond Tutu had called the rainbow nation is no longer a beacon of good governance. The magic of the era of Nelson Mandela has given way to widespread mistrust. Read more: Egyptian President el-Sissi's year as head of the African Union Whether Ramaphosa will manage to set the agenda as chairman of the AU will not only depend on the conflicts in Libya and South Sudan: South Africa will also have to shed its image of nepotism in the long shadow of former President Jacob Zuma and xenophobia following attacks on migrants. This is the moment for South Africa to improve its standing. Ramaphosa must speak up for African interests at the United Nations — for instance the envisioned 75-25 funding split for UN-authorized AU-led missions. This means that Ramaphosa might have to confront the administration of US President Donald Trump, which opposes such a funding split. Read more: Germany's Merkel vows support to southern African leaders The African Union also desperately requires institutional reforms. It needs to be trimmed down, as well as given greater political clout and financial independence. Luckily, the AU's New Partnership for Africa's Development initiative and the African Peer Review Mechanism  are based in Midrand, South Africa. That means that Ramaphosa must now show that the AU reform process is more than mere window dressing. During his term as the AU chairman in 2018, Rwandan President Paul Kagame initiated serious reforms through sheer determination and a clearly defined agenda. Now, it is time for Ramaphosa to show what South Africa is capable of. Mandela was a key figure in the African National Congress. His activities on behalf of the liberation movement resulted in imprisonment for treason. After his release, he was elected South Africa's president in 1994. After his retirement in 1999, he remained active as Africa's leading statesman. His death in December 2013 at age 95 was met with a worldwide outpouring of grief. European colonialists introduced a system of white minority rule known as apartheid in the 1940s. It included a basic racial classification system, in which South Africans were categorized as 'white', 'native', 'coloured' or 'Indian' and forcefully segregated. Resistance leaders like Mandela sought to replace the system with a 'rainbow nation'. On February 11, 1990, Nelson Mandela walked out of Victor Verster Prison outside Cape Town as part of a negotiated settlement to end apartheid. The resistance icon and his wife Winnie Madikizela-Mandela greeted the crowds with clinced fists raised high. Many of those gathered that day had never seen their hero. Mandela had spent 27 years in jail, mostly on Robben Island off the tip of Africa. Generations of South Africans had suffered violently enforced policies of racial oppression, discrimination and segregation by the time the white minority regime had begun to fall apart. In the late 1980s secret negotiations for a handover of power came just as a violent anti-apartheid struggle gathered momentum. Demands for the release of Mandela and other political prisoners took center stage. In recognition of their efforts to negotiate an end to apartheid, Mandela and Frederik Willem de Klerk - South Africa's last white leader - were jointly awarded the 1993 Nobel Peace Prize. The following year Mandela became the country's first democratically elected – and first black president – and appointed de Klerk as one of his deputies. Mandela was at heart a Pan-African. He flew to Zambia, Tanzania and Nigeria to express his gratitude for their support in fighting aparthied. Mandela never tired of helping African leaders find peace, whether it was in Zaire, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Burundi or Lesotho. The outcome was not always positive, but Mandela made it clear that he wanted African unity, development and peace. Following Mandela's release from prison, Africans were drawn to South Africa and its promise of a rainbow nation. Nigerians, Burundians and Congolese fleeing conflict were granted refuge, while Zimbabweans, Ethiopians and Somalis embraced the free nation. Since the mid-2000s xenophobia has spread in the country and South African mobs have turned violently against their fellow Africans. Author: Benita van Eyssen, Thuso Khumalo DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.