At least three people died and 179 were injured after a passenger plane skidded off the runway at Istanbul's Sabiha Gokcen airport on Wednesday, Turkish Health Minister Fahrettin Koca reported. Th accident took place around 6:30 p.m. local time (1530 UTC). The passenger plane, a Boeing 737, split into three pieces and veered onto a patch of grass next to the runway, in what Transport Minister Mehmet Cahit Turhan called a "rough landing." One of aircraft's wings also caught fire, but the blaze was later extinguished. Passengers had to exit through cracks in the smashed plane. Read more: What you need to know about air safety and crashes Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3RoUn Istanbul Governor Ali Yerlikaya said there were 177 passengers and six staff on board the plane, which had been flying back to Istanbul from the western city of Izmir. "The plane could not hold on the runway due to poor weather conditions and skidded for around 50-60 meters," Yerlikaya told reporters at the airport. Footage showed the plane landing and continuing to skid at a high speed off the runway. "We are deeply saddened ... [but] we are very happy that we escaped a greater accident," he said, adding that the plane could have burst into flames. Emergency response teams took the wounded passengers to 18 different hospitals in the area, Yerlikaya added. Three of the injured required surgery and two others were in intensive care, but none of their lives were thought to be in danger, Health Minister Koca said. Read more:Ethiopian Airlines 737 MAX crash had 'clear similarities' with Lion Air crash Firefighters, emergency personnel respond The plane belonged to Turkish budget provider Pegasus Airlines. Its nose was completely smashed and the cockpit had turned over. Both pilots were among the injured, though Yerlikaya said they were in good condition. Read more: Turkish bachelorette party jet crashes in Iranian mountains, killing 11 Television footage showed serious damage to the fuselage, with passengers seen exiting via one of the wings. Emergency personnel were seen taking others passengers out of the plane and carrying them away on stretchers. Firefighters were also immediately sent to the scene. The airport were the crash occured was shut down, with all flights redirected to Istanbul's main airport. Read more: Lion Air crash: Does Indonesia have an air safety problem? In January, all flights were suspended fom Sabiha Gokcen airport after a Pegasus plane skidded off the runway because of bad weather. The plane, which had arrived from Sharjah, was carrying 164 passengers, all of whom were safely evacuated. In 2018, another Pegasus-flown Boeing 737 slid off the runway at Trabzon airport and ended hanging off a cliff just several meters from the Black Sea (below picture gallery). The Pegasus Airlines flight from Ankara skidded off the coastal runway when it landed at Trabzon airport in northern Turkey on Saturday night. Images showed the plane hanging from the edge of a muddy cliff, with its nose meters from the Black Sea. In a statement, Pegasus said that its aircraft "had a runway excursion incident," but that all passengers and crew were unhurt. The plane, a Boeing 737-800, nearly plunged into the Black Sea when its wheels got stuck in the muddy slope. Trabzon Governor Yucel Yavuz said investigators were trying to determine what prompted the plane to skid off the runway. Some reports claimed it was most likely caused by a collision between the aircraft and an airborne animal. Images posted by Turkish media showed plumes of black smoke coming from the trapped plane, suggesting a fire might have broken out on board. Passenger Yuksel Gordu told state media that it was a "miracle" all of the 168 people on board escaped uninjured. "We could have burned, exploded, flown into the sea," Gordu said. Another passenger, Fatma Gordu, told Turkey's Dogan news agency that panic erupted on board as the plane skidded off the runway and began sliding down the cliff: "We swerved all of a sudden. The front of the plane crashed and the back was in the air. Everyone panicked." As officials scrambled to pull the plane back onto the runway, Trabzon airport was forced to remain closed for several hours overnight on Saturday. Flights eventually resumed early Sunday morning. Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. lc/rc (AP, dpa, Reuters)