In the small Bavarian village of Hohenschwangau near Neuschwanstein, everything is business as usual. Buses bring tourists who want to trek up to the fairy tale castle on foot or by carriage. Some 1.5 million people are channeled through the rooms of King Ludwig II every year. But since late January the day-to-day operations have become more manageable. Chinese tourists are absent. Franziska Wimberger of the Bavarian Palace Administration told DW that despite cancellations by Chinese tour groups, "The guided tours in Neuschwanstein Castle are still very busy." The international airport in Frankfurt is also feeling the effects of the coronavirus crisis. Dieter Hulick, the press spokesman of Fraport AG, which operates Germany’s biggest airport, told DW that the numerous flight cancellations would have a significant impact on Lufthansa, for example. However, more concrete figures will not be available until mid-March. What is already visible, apart from the shorter waiting lines at check-in, are the increased precautionary measures taken, such as tourists from Asia who are increasingly wearing face masks. Read more: German companies opt for 'wait-and-see' over coronavirus outbreak Damage control The world's largest travel company, TUI Group, is also taking preventative measures. All associated TUI companies — including cruises, airlines and hotels — have followed "established procedures to prevent infection," a spokesperson said. More disinfectant dispensers have been provided on cruise ships, for example. In terms of Asian tours, TUI already recorded a slight decline in bookings up to and including last week. On the whole, however, the multinational company said it is too early to identify "fundamental changes in the booking behavior of our customers and possible financial consequences." The coronavirus and its consequences: Hotel on the island of Tenerife becomes a quarantine station TUI also imposed a booking freeze for all arrivals on the sealed-off hotel on Tenerife until March 13. Currently, there are around 200 guests in the hotel who have booked through the TUI Group. The holidaymakers are requested not to leave their rooms for the time being. "We are continuing to monitor the situation closely and are in close contact with the hotel and the local authorities," said TUI. Read more: Coronavirus cripples tourism in Europe Worries, but no panic The German Travel Association (DRV), the lobby group representing the interests of German tour operators and travel agencies, said it sees growing uncertainty among customers. Spokesperson Kerstin Heinen confirmed to DW that customers are currently very reluctant to make travel bookings for the current year. Furthermore, holidaymakers who have already booked trips have a heightened need for information. "The safety of customers and employees has top priority," said Heinen. "One should not panic, but the longer the situation continues, the worse it is for the tourism industry." Just how serious the situation is can be seen by the reaction of a well-known Bavarian brewery. When asked by DW about possible declines in visitor numbers, they replied, "We do not want to be named in connection with the coronavirus." Read more: Coronavirus, cold, or flu symptoms? How to tell the difference Consequences for the Black Forest region Travel restrictions in Europe would also affect the Black Forest region There is currently no reason to panic, according to Wolfgang Weiler, the spokesperson for Black Forest tourism. Although there have been no travelers from China in recent weeks, they only make up about 0.4% of the guests — contrary to some clichés. However, individual providers specializing in Asian customers, such as those at Titisee, a lake in the southern Black Forest, are already being more severely affected by the absence. "But if the epidemic turns into a pandemic and travelers from Europe are also absent, then we are in for a difficult year," Weiler told DW. Some 25% of visitors to the Black Forest come from neighboring countries. While these visitors are guaranteed not to run into massive crowds in the region and would enjoy many solitary hiking trails, there are no safety guarantees. All of this can change quickly, as developments in northern Italy have shown. After a jump in coronavirus cases in Italy, events were canceled in Milan and Venice. Even the world's largest travel industry gathering, the International Tourism Fair (ITB) in Berlin from March 4-8, is also on the rocks. While recently there was only talk of increased safety precautions, there are now more and more voices calling for the event to be canceled. Its almost 160-meter-high (525 ft.) spires rise majestically into the sky: Cologne Cathedral is the landmark of the city of Cologne. It is one of the largest Gothic-style cathedrals and appropriately impressive. Around 6 million people visit this UNESCO World Heritage Site every year. This landmark of the city on the Neckar River is possibly the most famous ruin in Germany. The castle was first mentioned in the 13th century. During the reign of Louis XIV, the Palatinate Electors resided here. Bavarian King Ludwig II had a fairy-tale castle built near Füssen because he wanted to withdraw from public life. Just a few weeks after his death in 1886 it was opened to the public. Meanwhile the castle has become one of the most visited in Europe. Berlin is Germany's biggest tourist magnet. In 2018 the city counted almost 33 million overnight stays. The Brandenburg Gate, a national landmark and symbol of German reunification, is one of the most popular places to visit. Another Berlin attraction is located on an island in the middle of the Spree river. Five leading museums present exhibitions from prehistory to antiquity and 19th century art. One highlight is the world-famous bust of Egyptian queen Nefertiti. The summer residence of Frederick II of Prussia can be found in Potsdam. The name "Sanssouci", translated means "without worry", reveals the king's desire for a place of refuge. The palace and park are often referred to as Prussian Versailles, and since 1990 they have been part of the UNESCO World Cultural Heritage. Many people still remember the Dresden Frauenkirche as a ruin and a memorial against war. Since its reconstruction and consecration in 2005, it has been one of the most popular destinations for German and foreign visitors. In Thuringia, the Wartburg Castle towers above the city of Eisenach. It was here that Martin Luther translated the New Testament in the early 16th century. In 1817, the Wartburg Festival was the first official democratic assembly in Germany which took place at the castle. The "Black Gate" in Trier is one of the best preserved gates of the ancient world. The former Roman city gate was used as a church for almost a thousand years before Napoleon in 1802 ordered its restoration to its original form. The core building is considered one of the best preserved architectural structures of the Carolingian period and in 1978 it became the first German UNESCO World Heritage Site. Emperor Charlemagne was buried in Aachen Cathedral and almost all German kings up to 1531 were crowned in the chapel. The Holsten Gate, which once formed the western boundary of Lübeck, is now considered the city's landmark. It is part of the historic city center, which is situated on an island surrounded by watercourses and the remains of the ramparts. Many of the houses in the old brick Gothic style are listed historical monuments. The Marienplatz square with its lively pedestrian area is located in the heart of Munich. Several times a day visitors can admire the Glockenspiel at the adjoining New City Hall. To the music, small figures rotate at lofty heights, playing scenes inspired by the city's history. Author: Sabine Peschel, Elisabeth Jahn