A century has now passed since the beginning of a decade that is still regarded, at least in Germany, as a highpoint of cultural experimentation and creativity. In that decade, literature, theatre, dance, art, and above all cinema, were reinvented along modernist lines, and in particular German Expressionism. In Germany, the 1920s coincided with the Weimar Republic, that brief flowering of German democracy after World War One that came crashing down when Hitler took power in 1933. A mythical time of freewheeling cultural experimentation had ended. But this heyday of creativity has lived on. The 2020 Berlinale is appropriately celebrating a century since that revolutionary decade began with a program that includes a contemporary adaptation of Alfred Döblin's legendary 1929 Weimar novel, Berlin Alexanderplatz, and the world premiere of the restored version of one of the most legendary silent movies of the era, Paul Leni's Waxworks from 1924 (pictured top). The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari, the early masterpiece of German Expressionism that sees a deranged hypnotist manipulate a sleepwalker (Conrad Veidt) to commit a series of murders, will be screened 100 years after its premiere. The Berlin Alexanderplatz remake is in the running for a Golden Bear. A possessed Conrad Veidt in 'The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari' Fantasy waxwork worlds A digitally restored version of Paul Leni's silent omnibus film, Waxworks, has had its world premier at the Berlinale and will now be available to audiences around the world. Waxworks is the story of a young poet who is hired to write backstories for three tyrannical historical figures rendered in wax: Caliph Harun al-Rashid, Ivan the Terrible and Jack the Ripper. Each of the sinister figures take up an episode of the film in which they cross paths with the poet and the daughter of the waxworks owner  — who in one episode is pursued by the serial killer, Jack the Ripper. Read more: Silent films that speak volumes: A Weimar cinema retrospective Nearly a century since it was released, Waxworks remains fresh today due to its imaginative direction, the theatrical performances by lead actors Emil Jannings, Conrad Veidt and Werner Krauß, but above all its setting. According to Rainer Rother from the German Cinematheque, the fact that director Paul Leni was also a production designer and graphic artist meant he could create the particular staging and décor that made Expressionist cinema so distinctive. Rother also points to the importance of the settings and studio buildings utilized in the film. "There is hardly any other film in the 1920s that has more spectacular locations than Waxworks," he told DW. It's not every day that a politician attracts the most attention at the Berlin International Film Festival. On the fifth day of the Berlinale, the former US Secretary of State and unsuccessful presidential candidate Hillary Clinton made her much-anticipated appearance in Berlin to promote, alongside director Nanette Burstein, the four-part doco series "Hillary." "One of the most admired and one of the most vilified women in American history," says the narrator of Hillary Clinton — pictured with State Minister of Culture, Monika Grütters — in a series veering between hagiography and self-deprecating candor. After losing to Donald Trump, "Hillary" is presented as a series of flashbacks tracing her evolution as lawyer, feminist and almost president. The drama "My Little Sister" made its debut on day 5 of the Berlinale, with stars Nina Hoss and Lars Eidinger, despite the dark subject matter, attending the press conference with a smile. Directed by Swiss duo Stéphane Chuat and Véronique Reymond, Eidinger plays a Berlin theater star who is diagnosed with cancer. His twin sister Hoss takes him back to Swiss countryside to fight the disease. There's usually not much to laugh about in the Golden Bear competition. Serious themes predominate, political cinema triumphs. But on day 5 there was one exception. The Belgian-French directing team of Benoît Delépine and Gustave Kervern debuted the competition entry "Effacer l'historique" (Delete History), an extremely funny contemporary comedy about the brave new social media world. German arthouse director Christian Petzold's "Undine" is one of the most awaited titles at the Berlinale. He said he wanted to pursue the love story initiated in "Transit" (2018) between the characters portrayed by Paula Beer and Franz Rogowski (photo). To do so, he builds on the mythical figure of "Undine," a water spirit. A broken aquarium and a giant catfish contribute to the atmospheric work. Hong Kong democracy activist Joshua Wong (photo) has called for a boycott of the Berlinale in support of Chinese dissident Ai Weiwei, who claims that his films were "censored" by the festival to avoid harming sponsors. As the Berlin festival has done several times in the past, director Carlo Chatrian once again denied the allegations, citing other reasons for the rejection. It's the second time that Italian actor Roberto Benigni, who charmed the world with his Oscar-winning "Life is Beautiful," stars in a film version of "Pinocchio." While he portrayed the puppet in 2002, he's the carpenter Gepetto in the new film by Matteo Garrone ("Gomorrah"). "It was the realization of a dream to be both!" said an enthusiastic Benigni on Sunday, "A sign of destiny if you ask me!" His name is never mentioned, but the abusive movie mogul in "The Assistant" is inevitably inspired by Harvey Weinstein. He manages to haunt a young office assistant without ever appearing on screen. A single workday offers enough clues that he's a beast — and that everyone goes along with it. Director Kitty Green (left) and actress Julia Garner are in Berlin to present the powerful #MeToo film. He is currently one of the most sought-after actors in Germany: Lars Eidinger. In the film "Persian Lessons" by Vadim Perelman, Eidinger portrays a brutal SS officer in a Nazi concentration camp. At the press conference ahead of the world premiere on Saturday evening, he choked up discussing today's racism: "I think our society is so poisoned when it comes to hatred and resentment." Jerry Lewis, who died in 2017, is best known as the "King of Comedy," but he was also the director and star of an unreleased project that dealt with the Holocaust: the drama "The Day the Clown Cried," from 1972. Chris Lewis, Jerry's son, was at the Deutsche Kinemathek on Saturday to donate selected documents from the estate of his father, including material related to the film. The Berlinale Camera, awarded since 1986, honors creators who've made a special contribution to filmmaking and with whom the festival feels closely connected. This year, the lifetime achievement award was handed out on February 22 to Ulrike Ottinger, one of the most important German filmmakers since the 1970s. Her work as an artist has also been shown at the Venice Biennale and the Documenta. Looking for stars at the Berlinale? Then keep an eye open for Johnny Depp. He's in town for the premiere of "Minamata," in which he portrays the celebrated US photojournalist W. Eugene Smith, who in the 1970s drew worldwide attention to the devastating effects of mercury poisoning in the Japanese village of Minamata. You can watch his press conference on Facebook and Instagram. Following his arrest in 2014 and a 20-year prison sentence, Ukrainian director Oleg Sentsov was the most renowned political prisoner in the European film world. Before his release in September 2019 in a prisoner swap, he managed to direct a film from his Siberian prison cell: "Numbers" premiered at the Gorki Theater earlier this week and celebrated its red carpet Berlinale screening on Friday. Who said film festivals only featured heavy material? Disney's latest animation, "Onward," set to be released in theaters at the beginning of March, premieres on the Berlinale's second day. An urban fantasy centering on two teenage elf brothers, it was directed by Dan Scanlon ("Monsters University"). In it you hear the voices of Tom Holland, Chris Pratt, Julia Louis-Dreyfus and Octavia Spencer. The festival opened on Thursday with "My Salinger Year," starring Sigourney Weaver in the role of an old-school New York literary agent whose main goal is to protect the aging cult author J.D. Salinger from his intrusive admirers. Weaver, legendary for her Ellen Ripley role in the "Alien" films, revealed her own perspective on fans: "They are the people we work for," she said. Actor Jeremy Irons, president of this year's Berlinale jury, opened a press conference on Friday by distancing himself from controversial comments he had made in the past on sex abuse, same-sex marriage and abortion, which he claimed to have "already refuted and apologized for." Hoping "to put those past comments to bed," he emphasized his support for human rights and achievements on those issues. Succeeding longtime director Dieter Kosslick, the festival management duo Carlo Chatrian (right) and Mariette Rissenbeek (center) together kicked off their first Berlinale as directors. The festive mood on opening night was however overshadowed by the previous day's deadly racist attacks in German town of Hanau. Before the opener's screening, a minute of silence honored the victims. Author: Elizabeth Grenier, Jochen Kürten German silent film influenced Hollywood Leni's Expressionist film was not only artful in the way it employed abstract sets and outlandish costumes. His last film before he left Germany for Los Angeles also pioneered the fundamentals of a Hollywood blockbuster: A fantasy or historical premise; an unpredictable journey through time; a strong element of horror; and of course a pinch of romance. Read more: What a history-making Oscar nomination reveals about gender equality in Hollywood With its ironic stylistic devices and outlandish plot that is delivered with a wink, Leni was also breaking with more earnest early Expressionist classics such as The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari (1920) or Nosferatu: A Symphony of Horror (1922). 'Waxworks' can now be seen in a new light The silent film's contemporary significance is heightened by the release of a digitally restored version created in a cooperation between the German Cinematheque and Cineteca di Bologna, and a new soundtrack from the Ensemble Musikfabrik. The German original burned in 1925, with the restored version based on a copy found in the British Film Institute. "A reunion with this film is definitely worthwhile because the visual quality is much, much better than it was before the restoration," said Rainer Rother of the restored Waxworks print. Weimar-period classic in contemporary context Alfred Döblin's famed Weimar Berlin novel centered around small time criminal and laborer Franz Biberkopf has been reimagined for the screen (it was famously adapted into a TV miniseries by Rainer Fassbinder in 1980), but this time the protagonist is a refugee from West Africa. In this reworking by Afghan-German director Burhan Qurbani (We Are Young. We Are Strong.), the stateless person named Francis finds his way to the German capital and is treated just as mercilessly as Biberkopf in the 1920s. West African refugee Francis reprises the alienated protagonist Franz in the original 1929 novel Though Francis has no work permit, he initially resists an offer to deal drugs in a local park before coming under the influence of the neurotic, sex-addicted Reinhold, who takes him in. This updated version of Berlin Alexanderplatz is also about exiles and outsiders who struggles to find a place. It also repeats the authentic, street-level portrayal of the city. Combined with the screenings of Expressionist masterpieces The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari and Waxworks, the Berlinale in 2020 is acting as a bridge to the cultural and artistic revolution that was centered in Berlin a century before. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/345PE