The effects of the coronavirus continued to take hold on Wednesday as Japan reported a total of 174 cases, the largest number of infections outside China, health authorities said. The escalation in confirmed cases from the Japanese cruise ship that had 3,700 people on board showed no signs of abating in what has now become the largest single cluster of the newly named COVID-19 virus outside its origin in China, where it has killed more than 1,100. Read more: Coronavirus: What's it like being quarantined on the Diamond Princess cruise ship? Two given a clean bill of health in Russia In Russia, two Chinese nationals hospitalized with COVID-19 since the end of January have now fully recovered from the disease and were discharged from hospitals this week, officials said. A tourist from China hospitalized in the Zabaykalye region in eastern Siberia was allowed to leave hospital after tests revealed he was no longer infected and "posed no danger to people around him,'' local health officials said. On Tuesday, a hospital in the Tyumen region in western Siberia discharged a female student who was also diagnosed with the virus. Both patients, officials said, suffered from a mild form of the disease. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Xe0w WHO: 'More upheaval than a terrorist attack' Also on Tuesday, the World Health Organization (WHO) said the virus "is more powerful in creating political, economic, and socialist upheaval than any terrorist attack." Many questions remain about the virus, which emerged at a wildlife market in the Chinese city of Wuhan in December, and is spread by people coughing or sneezing. WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said: "We hope that one of the outcomes of this meeting will be an agreed roadmap for research around which researchers and donors will align." Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus speaks to the world's media after a WHO meeting in Geneva, Switzerland Chinese GP postponed The ramifications of the outbreak have caused disruption to the sporting world, with the Formula One Grand Prix in China the latest to event to be affected. The GP was due to take place on April 19 but the sport's governing body, the FIA, and Formula One released a statement saying that they had jointly decided to postpone the race. "As a result of continued health concerns and with the World Health Organisation declaring the coronavirus as a global health emergency, the FIA and Formula 1 have taken these measures," the two bodies said. The pair will continue to monitor the situation and assess potential alternative dates, Formula One said on their official Twitter page. A host of international sporting events have been canceled due to COVID-19, including the all-electric Formula E motor racing series that abandoned plans for a race in the Chinese city of Sanya next month. In addition, a string of golf tournaments have been called off in Asia, including this month's HSBC Women's Golf World Championship in Singapore and the LPGA Thailand. The US LPGA Tour has scrapped three of its most lucrative early-season events across the continent. The Formula One circuit kicked off on May 13,1950 at Silverstone in England. Italy's Giuseppe "Nino" Farina (pictured here) won the first-ever F1 race and would go on to win two more of the total of seven races to win the first drivers' title. Juan-Manuel Fangio dominated F1 in its its early years, driving for Alfa Romeo, Maserati, Mercedes and Ferrari. He won the drivers' title a total of five times (1951, 1954-1957) - a record he would hold until 2002 when Germany's Michael Schumacher went one better. His ratio of starts to wins is still unparalleled though, having won 24 of the 51 races he competed in. The German Grand Prix became part of the Formula One circuit in 1951, Initially, the race was run on the Nordschleife of the Nürburgring. Later, it was run on the AVUS in Berlin (1959) and the Hockenheimring (since 1970). It has almost always been part of the F1 calendar since 1951, but it's long-term future is far from clear. German-born Jochen Rindt grews up with his grandparents in Graz and represented Austria during his career. He died in a crash during a practice session ahead of the Italian Grand Prix at Monza in 1970. Still, Rindt had such a hefty lead in the drivers' standings at the time of the death he wound up being crowned champion - posthumously. Only five women have ever got behind the wheel of a Formula One car. The first was Maria Teresa de Filippis of Italy in 1958. The most successful female driver was her compatriot Lella Lombardi (left), who competed in 12 races between 1975 and 1976. In 1975 she finished sixth in the Spanish Grand Prix, making her the only female driver to earn points in the drivers' standings. On August 1, 1976 Niki Lauda loses control of his Ferrari on the Nordschleife at the Nürburgring and crashes into a rock face. His car goes up in flames and it takes about 50 seconds until Lauda can be pulled from the wreckage. The reigning world champion from Austria suffers severe burns but returns to the cockpit only 42 days after his crash. How many times could Ayrton Senna have become the drivers' champion had it not been for his tragic accident at Imola? The Brazilian was already a motorsport icon: young, good looking and fast. On May 1, 1994 Senna raced into a boundary wall in his Williams at Imola and died. He was only 34 years old and had won "only" three drivers' titles. Michael Schumacher won the driver's title a record seven times. After winning two titles with Benetton, Schumacher moved to Ferrari where he dominated the circuit beginning in 2000, winning five consecutive drivers' championships. He retired retired in 2007 but made a comeback with Mercedes three years later. At the end of the 2012 season he retired for good. Lewis Hamilton is not just the most successful driver of recent years, but he is also by far the sport's biggest celebrity beyond the track, and is often seen at fashion shows or movie premieres. With five drivers' titles to his name, it may only be a matter of time before he catches up to or overtakes Michael Schumacher's record seven world championships. Bernie Ecclestone is the man who made Formula One what it is today. A former motor racing driver himself, in the early 1970s he started marketing the circuit to television, turning it into a business worth billions. The diminutive Briton ruled with an iron fist, sometimes drawing the ire of the teams. In 2017 he sold F1 to US mass-media corporation Liberty Media. Lewis Hamilton has the most career world championship points (3,061) as well as the most pole positions (84). Michael Schumacher holds the record for most wins (91), drivers' titles (7) and fastest laps (77). Rubens Barichello has competed in the most races (323), while Schumacher shares the record for most wins in a season (13) with Sebastian Vettel. Ferrari is the team with the most wins (235). In recent seasons Lewis Hamilton and Sebastian Vettel have battled for the drivers' championship, but one young driver looks like he could soon challenge them. Charles Leclerc has joined Vettel at Ferrari for this season, and many believe that it is only a matter of time until the 21-year-old Monegasque wins a drivers' title. Author: Andreas Sten-Ziemons jsi/rc (Reuters, AFP, dpa, AP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.