Toxins in, toxins out. That's how humans like to roll. When the going gets tough, we vomit. It's a survival tactic that sets us apart from other mammalian species, such as rats and mice, who simply can't vomit. Whether it's by the misfortune of sitting next to a sneezing, sniffling traveler on a train, inadvertently eating moldy food, or through drink and drug abuse, the human bodies knows when it's time for our natural survival instincts to kick in. Read more: Using lemon juice against vomiting and diarrhea We all know how it feels. First, there's that a sense of disgust or nausea. A cold, sweaty sensation that's both mental and physical. When the blood drains from your face and your mouth fills with saliva. Then comes "emesis." That's when that gut-wrenching pain and muscular contractions turn into a moment of release, sending gastric fluid and bits from the small intestine up through your mouth and, occasionally, your nose. Nausea and vomiting can be truly unpleasant, but they are a natural defense mechanism that we're lucky to have. Not only does vomiting rid us of toxins, but all that build-up is important too, right down to a flood of saliva, which protects the throat and teeth from corrosive, acidic stomach contents. But not all creatures can help themselves in that way. Frogs and sharks can't vomit, so they turn out their entire stomachs. Street pizza at Karneval Chances are a good few revelers will willingly reacquaint themselves with this feeling during the international carnival season… and then keep drinking. Well, that's up to them. But it does leave an awful mess, all those puddles of "street pizza" teeming with the previous night's exploits, and one question: Does vomit spread viruses? Astronauts train for "zero-g" conditions in so-called "vomit comet" flights "So long as you don't touch it, it shouldn't be an issue. And it's important to remember that not all vomit is contaminated with viruses," says Dr. Catherine Makison Booth, a microbiologist at the UK's HSE Science and Research Centre. Read more: Noroviruses - highly contagious, really disgusting But you might still want to be careful. Makison Booth says workers, whose unfortunate job it is to mop up the sick, should perform a risk assessment to identify "the appropriate personal protective equipment to wear before doing cleaning it up." Dr. Makison Booth has good reason to recommend such caution. She has studied the spread of viruses through vomit, using the HSE's now-world famous human model, Vomiting Larry. Makison Booth has focused on norovirus, which causes vomiting and diarrhea. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/195xD And while she cautions again that the potential for viruses to spread depends on the "differing number of viruses in different peoples' vomit and environmental conditions, like temperature and humidity," she describes this worse-case scenario. Read more: Aussies rail on new, 'vomit-like' AU$5 banknote "I used 1 million virus particles per mL of fluid in Vomiting Larry based on a research article I found by E.O. Caul [Hyperemesis hiemis—a sick hazard]. Caul used an electron microscope to show that as many as 30,000,000 viruses could be present in a 30 milliliter bolus of vomit. It is thought that as few as 10 norovirus particles could be enough to elicit an infection and as such you would only need to ingest 10 nanoliters of vomit, assuming that many viable viruses were present in it," wrote Makison Booth in an email to DW. "So, if you shared out 1 milliliter of norovirus-contaminated vomit equally between individuals it could directly infect 100,000 people, and that's before they start to shed norovirus particles themselves and infect others. It should be noted here that this is highly unrealistic," she says. Rum for rats Rats are a special focus for emesis researchers, because while rats can't vomit, they have found certain work-arounds. They either learn to avoid toxins or use a strategy called pica. That's when they eat non-nutritional substances, like clay and dirt, to dilute the toxins. But why can't rats vomit? Rats have a highly-resistant barrier between the stomach and the esophagus, which essentially creates a one-way system. Once the toxins are in, they stay in. Rats lack the muscular strength to reopen the hatch and reverse the flow of food or fluids. They also lack the neural connections that they would need to control the muscles that are needed for vomiting — if, indeed, they had those muscles at strength. So, they tend to avoid tastes they know to be dangerous or ones they don't know at all. "Rats survive by an extreme wariness of new foods, or neophobia," says Professor Linda Parker, a behavioral neuroscientist at the University of Guelph, Canada. "If the food makes the rats sick, future encounters with the taste will trigger a conditioned gaping response, which appears to represent nausea in rats," wrote Prof. Parker in an email to DW. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Xvlr Parker and her team have studied this behavior, using tastes and places that were paired with both "rewarding" drugs, such as amphetamine and cocaine, and nausea-inducing drugs, such as lithium chloride. "Strangely, rats will learn to directly self-administer a rewarding drug," says Parker. "But they will avoid a taste with which it is paired. Any change in the hedonic set point (sic), good or bad, makes rats avoid a taste." So, if the rat thinks the taste is responsible for changing they way they feel — either physically or their "state of mind" — it will avoid it. But stranger still, Parker's research also suggests that rats can differentiate between those "rewarding" drugs and those nausea-inducing drugs. When re-exposed to amphetamine, rats don't gape, but they do for lithium chloride. We vomit for a range of reasons. Here, former tennis star Pete Sampras vomits during the 1996 US Open Stopping survival instincts Now, whether you're a rat, shrew or human, ridding your body of toxins can save your life. But we don't only ever want to vomit because our lives are at risk. Sometimes we're merely responding to a random sickly smell, perhaps it's a waft of sewerage or someone else's vomit. It may just be air travel, where the levels of oxygen are poor. None of that will kill you per se, but you may still feel nauseous. Some have suggested that spitting or swallowing the excess saliva that builds up in your mouth before your vomit can stop your vomiting. But don't try that if your body is telling you it really needs to be sick. Read more: Coronavirus: Germany hopes to contain COVID-19 There are "anti-emetic" drugs that can control vomiting, although the nausea remains — the body still wants to react, to throw out some foreign object or feeling. But there are situations such in chemotherapy where patients would welcome the relief. As a result, Parker and her fellow researchers are studying "endogenous cannabinoids," naturally occurring chemicals in the body which may play a role in controlling nausea and vomiting. It's a young area of research and one that tends to face social and political opposition due to non-medical uses (and abuses) of cannabinoids. But they could prove useful here and in other areas such as in treating dementia. It's what anyone celebrating Carnival in Cologne is called. Don't shy away from revelers you don't know. Just follow their lead. If they link arms with you, just sway along with them to the music. If they grab hold of your shoulders, it's to form a "polonaise" conga line. That's a good thing! Even better: sing along even if you don't know the words. After all, you've got six days to learn them. Don't be alarmed: kissing is a popular custom throughout the festivities but especially on Weiberfastnacht, the day when women take charge which marks the start of the street Carnival. What is known here as a "Bützchen" can be a peck on the cheek or a kiss and is an expression of carnival high spirits and not to be confused with less respectable motives. Only spoilsports refuse a friendly kiss. Dress up in a boring sailor costume? Cologne natives won't stand for that. Real Jecks can be recognized by their imaginative home-made costumes. At Carnival there's no such thing as being overdressed. By consensus, a hat is the absolute minimum you are expected to wear. When trimming it, let your imagination run free — the weirder the better. Anything goes! A carnival costume is really good when it's fit for partying, and that means outdoors — the name "street carnival" should be taken literally. But it should also adapt to indoor revelries in bars or taverns. After drinking beer the perfect costume should also serve another important practical purpose: it should cause you no trouble or delay if you need to relieve yourself. For Cologne, drumming is the sound of the street carnival. Wherever music groups and marching bands are, high spirits are guaranteed. People dance spontaneously, sing and sway until the wee hours. The feel-good musicians don't just come from Cologne and the surrounding area but for many years lots of them travel from all over Europe to join the fun. So get going and follow them! Weiberfastnacht: At exactly 11 minutes past 11 on Thursday, the street carnival officially opens with a huge stage show on the Alter Markt in Cologne's old town. The city's best carnival bands perform here. It's so popular that the square is already bursting at the seams at 9 a.m. You can only get in with a ticket, so it's not for spontaneous visitors. But people are partying elsewhere as well. Even on ordinary days, the Zülpicher Strasse, near the university, is popular for its bars and restaurants. At and after Weiberfastnacht, it's a hot spot of alcoholic excess — unfortunately. In the eyes of locals, binge drinking has nothing to do with Carnival. They steer clear of this street. It's more relaxing to celebrate on Severinstrasse, for instance. If you want to party like a local, head to a pub or Brauhaus. It's worth avoiding the over-crowded area around Cologne Cathedral. Partying goes on in every district without exception. Standing in line is part of the experience and usually enjoyable, because you strike up conversations and maybe practice a song or two in Kölsch, the name of both Cologne's dialect as well as its beer. During Carnival there are usually only bar tables in the pubs. The rest is a dance floor. The food is cold, but the beer taps run hot. Tourists are often surprised that the beer — Kölsch — comes to you. You don't order it here; it will just keep arriving until you decline it, which you do by putting a beer mat on top of your glass. Evidently the revelers in this picture are still thirsty. If you think there's just one carnival parade in Cologne, the one on Rose Monday, you'd be mistaken. From the start, there are various parades in Cologne. Colorful, offbeat costumes, all home-made, are the trademark of the "Schull- und Veedelzöch." Here only schools and clubs take part. The groups judged the best are rewarded by being given a place in the Rose Monday parade the next day. The Nubbel is a straw figure that hangs from the facades of some pubs during Carnival. On the eve of Ash Wednesday it's taken down and "carried to the grave" in a torchlight procession. Burning the Nubbel signifies the end of Carnival. Anyone who has experienced this ritual understands that Carnival is more than just a party. It's a folk festival that magically links people together. Author: Anne Termèche