Austria on Sunday evening lifted a brief ban on trains traveling to and from Italy via a key international route. The block was imposed after two possible cases of the new coronavirus were discovered on board a train heading from Italy to southern Germany. "The official block on the Brenner Pass has been lifted," Austria's state-operated rail company ÖBB announced on Twitter. Trains will travel according to their normal schedules on Monday morning, the company added. Austria had halted some train connections on Sunday evening at the Brenner pass with Italy, after officials reported that two passengers who were possibly infected with the coronavirus had been stopped. The two passengers, while feverish, have since tested negative for the COVID-19 virus, Austria's interior ministry said. Earlier Sunday, ÖBB had confirmed to DW that trains through the key Brenner Pass had been halted "until further notice," with rail traffic stopped going in both directions. "No further Italian trains are planned to go through the Brenner Pass tonight," the company had said in a statement sent to DW. Austria's Interior Ministry said at the time that the train in question had been traveling from Venice to the southern German city of Munich. Italian authorities alerted their Austrian counterparts about two people exhibiting fever symptoms on the train. "The further procedure is currently being discussed together with the Italian authorities," the Interior Ministry said, adding that the train had been stopped on Italian soil. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3YEhQ German passengers reportedly involved The two passengers who were exhibiting symptoms were believed to be two German women, news agency DPA reported, citing an ÖBB spokesperson. The spokesperson said the two women were isolated from other passengers in a section of the train. Austrian Interior Minister Karl Nehammer said that officials would meet on Monday to discuss whether Austria should re-establish border controls with Italy. Read more: Coronavirus: Germany hopes to contain COVID-19 Italy battles outbreak Italian authorities have been battling to contain the new coronavirus, COVID-19, with the country currently logging over 150 cases. The government has already closed off the worst-hit areas in the northern part of the country, including the Veneto and Lombardy regions. The last two days of events for Venice's world-famous Carnival celebrations were called off on Sunday amid concerns about the outbreak. Authorities have not yet determined the source of the outbreak in northern Italy. "We are [now] even more worried because if we cannot find 'patient zero' then it means the virus is even more ubiquitous than we thought," Luca Zaia, Veneto regional president said. Concerns over the spread of the virus elsewhere prompted Turkey and Pakistan to close their borders with Iran on Sunday after the death toll there rose to eight. Over 2,400 people, mostly in China, have died due to COVID-19 since the virus first appeared in the Chinese city of Wuhan in December last year. rs/bk (dpa, Reuters) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here. It has not been proven that the face masks seen above can effectively protect you against viral infections. That said, these masks are probably able to catch some germs before they reach your mouth or nose. More importantly, they prevent people from touching their mouth or nose (which most people do instinctually). If you are already sick, such masks may keep you from infecting others. In its list of recommendations onhow to protect yourself from getting infected, the World Health Organisation does not mention face masks. At the top is frequently cleaning your hands. The WHO recommends alcohol-based hand rub, like the ones seen here in a hospital. The more simple day-to-day solution is water and soap, if you've got some handy. But make sure to wash your hands thoroughly. So here's what the doctors recommend: When coughing and sneezing, cover your mouth and nose with your flexed elbow. Or use tissue — but then immediately throw that tissue away and wash your hands. With your shirt or sweater, however, no, you don't need to throw them away. Do wash them frequently, though, or take them to the dry cleaner's. Another recommendation that may not work for everybody: Avoid close contact with anyone who has fever and cough! If you have to tend to sick people, make doubly sure to take additional protective measures. If you have fever, cough and difficulty breathing, seek medical care early. Avoid public places so you don't infect others. And also, explain to your doctor where you've previously traveled. When visiting live markets in areas currently experiencing cases of the novel coronavirus, avoid direct unprotected contact with live animals. That includes any surfaces that are in contact with animals as well. Cook meat thoroughly. The consumption of raw, or undercooked, animal products should be avoided. Raw meat, milk or animal organs should be handled with care to avoid cross-contamination with uncooked foods. These are good food safety practices and help prevent the spread of illnesses. Author: Fabian Schmidt