Turkish-backed militants attacked Syrian government forces in the northwestern Idlib province on Thursday, triggering a clash between the two sides, Turkish state-run media and Syrian opposition activists said. Turkey's Defense Ministry said on Twitter that some 50 Syrian government soldiers were killed. Five tanks, two armored personnel carriers, two armed pickups and other equipment were also destroyed it said. Two Turkish soldiers were also killed in an airstrike, the ministry said. Five others were injured in the strike that targeted Turkish troops, it said. Russia, which backs the regime of Syrian President Bashir al-Assad, claimed responsibility for the responding airstrike. Russia's defense ministry accused Turkey of providing artillery support, according to comments reported by Russian state-run RIA, Interfax and TASS news agencies. The clashes came a day after Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan warned of an "imminent" Turkish military offensive in Idlib. Earlier this month, 13 Turkish soldiers were killed as Syrian forces tried to reclaim the rebel-held stronghold. 'Healthy dialogue' Turkish Defense Minister Hulusi Akar said in an interview with CNN Turk on Thursday that Turkey and Russia are discussing the use of Syrian airspace in Idlib. He said the problem can be overcome if Russia "steps aside." Akar added that there is a "healthy dialogue" between Turkey and Russia on the ground in Idlib. He said that Turkey has no intention of clashing with Russian forces in Idlib and that their only target is the Syrian government. Akar also told CNN Turk that Turkey is in talks with the United States over possibly purchasing Patriot missile systems. "In the past, they have sent us air defense batteries. Our country faces a missile threat," he said. "In this way, there could be a support (through the deployment) of Patriot batteries," he said. Last year, Turkey secured a deal with Russia to buy S-400 missiles, ignoring a US warning of doing business with the Russians. The US responded by suspending an F-45 fighter jet program with Turkey. Germany, France concerned Later on Thursday, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Emmanuel Macron called Russian President Vladimir Putin to express their concern about the humanitarian situation in Idlib. "Both made clear how much they are concerned by the catastrophic humanitarian situation of the people in the Syrian province Idlib," the spokesman said. "Both demanded an instant end to the fighting and the possibility of humanitarian aid for the people." Both Merkel and Macron are in Brussels for European Union budget talks. In the call, Putin "underlined the need to take efficient measures to neutralize the terrorist threat while respecting sovereignty and territorial integrity of Syria," the Kremlin said. Syrian troops have intensified their push for the country's last major rebel enclave — a "prelude to their total defeat," according to President Bashar Assad. The violence and mass displacement could result in the biggest humanitarian horror story of the 21st century, said the UN's humanitarian and emergency relief head, Mark Lowcock. Children in particular have become the face of this suffering. Of the almost 900,000 forced from their homes and shelters in the last three months, 80% have been women and children, a UN spokesperson said. Around 300,000 of those have fled since the start of February alone. The wave of displacement is the largest exodus of civilians since World War II. With temperatures reaching minus seven Celsius (19 degrees Fahrenheit) at the snow covered displacement camps in the hills near Turkey's borders, seven children have died from exposure and bad living conditions. Save the Children said families are burning whatever they can find to stay warm. The chairty warned the death toll could rise. Convoys of Turkish commandos rolled toward the former "de-escalation zone" as Russian-backed Syrian forces intensified their push to retake the area in late January. After 13 Turkish soldiers stationed there to support rebels were killed in early February, diplomatic efforts to broker a cease-fire stalled. Assad's offensive to retake the strategic M5 highway leading through Idlib province to Syria's second city, Aleppo; has been a long-term objective. After a Russian bombing campaign helped Syrian forces capture all towns along the route on February 11, fierce fighting in western Aleppo forced more than 43,000 toward the Turkish border. The sheer number of Russian and Syrian aerial and artillery attacks on displacement camps, hospitals and schools "suggest they cannot all be accidental," UN human rights spokesperson Rupert Colville said. His office has recorded 299 civilian deaths this year, 93% caused by the Syrian government and its allies. Michelle Bachelet, the UN's human rights chief, called the campaign "indiscriminate." Turkish-supported rebels have been caught out by the onslaught, as have jihadis who are not officially backed by Ankara. One Islamist group, Hayat Tahrir al-Sham, scored a rare victory last week when they downed a particular model of helicopter that Syrian forces are thought to use to drop barrel bombs on civilians. The UN's Bachelet said "no shelter is now safe" and displacement camps have been overwhelmed by the number of those fleeing from the violence. Many have left the camps to take their chances on the road. Bachelet called for humanitarian corridors to be established to allow civilians to escape. Turkey has closed its borders to prevent a further influx of Syrians. It already hosts 3.5 million refugees. That leaves the people of Idlib with no escape route. More than 500,000 of those fleeing are children. Author: Tom Allinson dv/aw (AP, Reuters) DW sends out a selection of hard news and quality feature journalism. Sign up here.