Two people were killed in Moscow on Friday after 25 kilograms (55 pounds) of dry ice was dumped into a pool at a bath complex, Russian officials confirmed. Yulia Ivanova, spokesperson for investigators, told Russian media that the dry ice was put into the pool for "visual effect" and that others were seriously injured. The incident occurred during a birthday party attended by 18 people, according to investigators. A criminal case has been opened. Read more: Opinion: Putin's bespoke government — made for indefinite control The dangers of dry ice Russian news agency Interfax reported that internet blogger Ekaterina Didenko, who was not among the dead, was celebrating her 29th birthday an the bathhouse. According to Russian media, one of those who perished was Didenko's husband. Dry ice, which is frozen carbon dioxide, produces vapor when placed in water. The vapor can create a significant amount of carbon dioxide buildup when released in an inadequately ventilated space. Baths are considered an important part of Russian culture with Slavic roots. The bath often takes place in a small room or building designed for dry or wet heat sessions. January's icy-cold waters are a test of faith in most European countries but in Russia, where temperatures remained well below freezing on Sunday morning, Orthodox Church believers needed extra resolve. Followers climbed down into the supposedly holy water before making the sign of the cross to mark Epiphany. Often, they will dip three times under the water to symbolically wash away their sins. Russian celebrities and politicians joined in the annual custom. The freezing cold plunge sometimes takes place after midnight mass or early in the morning and is often accompanied by the ringing of church bells. Many non-believers and thrill-seekers also take part as some believe ice bathing strengthens the body and cleanses the soul. More than 40,000 first aiders and security guards were deployed to nearly 9,000 Russian bathing spots. Despite the risk of cold shock, which can cause heart attacks, no incidents were reported. Some people who had consumed vodka shots, said to heat the body, were banned from taking a dip. Authorities warned children, the elderly and those with cardiovascular problems to avoid the icy waters. Rivers and ponds across Russia are utilized for the annual ritual where priests first conduct the Great Blessing of the Waters to commemorate the baptism of Jesus in the Jordan River. Many remote communities cut holes in frozen lakes — like this one in the Lyutoga River in the Sakhalin region. For those not accustomed to icy baths, dozens of water tanks are installed in Orthodox churches to be blessed by priests -— as in the above picture from a church in Astravyets, Belarus. The water is then distributed to believers who may use it to bless themselves and their family members, to drink, or to store at home to use when ill. In some parts of Europe, the cool dip is more of a competitive swim. In the Balkans, Orthodox believers race to retrieve wooden crucifixes thrown into the water by a priest. Whoever grabs the cross and carries it back to land is believed to be blessed for the rest of the year. The race above involved Bosnian Serbs in the eastern Bosnian town of Visegrad. Even in high-security penal colonies like this one in Omsk, Siberia, prisoners are allowed to take part and wash away their sins. Many people think any water poured or bottled on Epiphany becomes holy water and has healing properties. Some Orthodox nations celebrated Epiphany on January 6, many others keep to the older Julian calendar, which falls on Gregorian January 19. Author: Nik Martin Author: Nik Martin jsi/aw (Interfax, AP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.