A sex scandal is shaking up French politics these days. Parisian mayor candidate Benjamin Griveaux has abandoned his campaign after a video allegedly featuring him masturbating surfaced online. Believed to have sent it to a love interest, Griveaux has not yet confirmed or denied if the video indeed features him. Although the clip was apparently sent in a consensual context, men's proclivity for sending random, unsolicited sexual images or videos to women, commonly known as "dick pics," is a familiar phenomenon in the digital age. In 2017, 53% of 18 to 35-year-old women surveyed by British market research and data analytics firm YouGov said they had received unsolicited dick pics. For those between 35 and 54, it was 35%. There's nothing inherently wrong about sharing sexual images or videos — for some, it's exciting and erotic. Snapchat's particularly useful in this regard — images only last a maximum of 10 seconds, after which they're deleted by the app (to what extent this is permanent is unclear, but that's another story). But three in four women say they've been sent pictures of men's genitalia without their consent; in social media chats, for example, while online-dating, or even in public, through sharing functions like Apple's AirDrop. Read more:  Scared of getting attached ⁠— Why we run away from relationships Even in public places, men anonymously send obscene photos to women using sharing functions What is "cyberflashing"? Why are men compelled to send photos of their genitalia to complete strangers? A Canadian study from 2019 was one of the first to examine the motivations and expectations of the men sending these images, as well as their demographics. It found that cyberflashers were most commonly motivated by a "transactional mindset." Most of the anonymous 1087 men who were surveyed as part of the study said they sent these pictures in the hope of receiving similar ones in return. The second most common reason given by respondents was that they were searching for a partner. Results also showed that men who admitted they had sent a picture without being asked showed a greater degree of narcissism and sexism. However, explicit misogyny could only be inferred from very few of the questionnaires. Researchers found this mindset in only 6% of respondents. They concluded the majority of senders could be described as "misguided" rather than "hateful." But... why? In early 2019, Moya Sarner made a similar observation for the Guardian UK when she decided to conduct research inside the epicenter of digital sexism: Reddit, one of the largest online forums. There, she asked men directly if and why they had ever sent a dick pic. The men were allowed to answer anonymously. The thread exploded. Again, different motives were given. These ranged from a desire for validation and a confidence boost due to low self esteem, to the goal of arousal, to some kind of probability calculation. Theyhoped, at some point, a woman would engage with them, Sarner said. In 2016, American clinical psychologist David Ley attempted to consider the phenomenon using a scientific lens. But as there weren't any empirical studies to draw on until after the publication of his essay, he had to limit himself to comparisons and speculation. As the Canadian study suggested, Ley concluded that this behavior is often based on men's misinterpretation of women's sexual interest. Read more: Infidelity: A fling doesn't have to end everything The unsolicited sending of pictures of one’s penis is a criminal offence Inconclusive scientific evidence According to Ley, in anonymous environments, men, in particular, tend to display more sexualized behavior. In addition, male mating strategies are historically characterized by a certain boldness and audacity, Ley says. From this perspective, negative attention is often better than none at all. For some, the thought of sexual rejection is the main source of excitement, for others, it's exactly what they fear. Ley suggests men with a heightened fear of rejection use dick pics to gauge whether their naked bodies are considered attractive, figuring an online interaction might be less painful than in real life. The Canadian study results show sending unsolicited sexual content is mainly a result of men's ignorance. Too often, men assume what they think is an appropriate message to send will also be received as such by the women they send them to. The fact that this might not be the case might not be clear to all, especially "first-time offenders," Ley says. There exists a lack of necessary clarification, he adds, suggesting young adults be taught to speak openly about their feelings and preferences from an early stage. What to do? Often, women simply ignore these unwanted images in order to avoid giving the sender the attention they are asking for. But there are other options the senders should be aware of. After all, sending unsolicited obscene pictures is not a trivial offense. Recipients can make them public or have them prosecuted. In Germany, sharing sexual content without consent is a crime, which comes under the unsolicited distribution of pornographic material. This is punishable by fines or imprisonment of up to one year. As of February 2020, those affected can protect themselves from having to see such unwanted content while using Twitter. With the twitter extension safeDM, inappropriate pictures can be filtered out of personal messages using artificial intelligence. The Brothers Grimm describe Little Red Riding Hood as a young girl, innocent and blond - but that wasn't always the case. The girl is much older in other versions of the tale, and there wasn't always a happy ending either. That was a German twist to the story. Little Red Riding Hood first started in France. "Viens te coucher avec moi" - Come to bed with me. That's how the wolf tries to entice Little Red Riding Hood into his bed. Accepting his invitation, she undresses - clearly an allusion to sex. In 1697, Charles Perrault wrote his story of the "Petit Chaperon Rouge;" the copper engraving was done by Gustave Doré. In those days, the story was told as a warning against male seducers. The tale of the coquettish French Little Red Riding Hood was adapted into English in 1729 - without a happy ending. Little Red Riding Hood and her grandmother are devoured by the wolf, and that was that. No hunter came to their rescue. Typical for the English version is that the girl wasn't only wearing a red hood, but also a red riding coat. The first German version of the Little Red Riding Hood was not the work of the Brothers Grimm, but of writer Ludwig Tieck. The romanticist who disliked the gloomy ending of the French version added a hunter who rescued the girl to the original tale. And in 1812, the Brothers Grimm turned the flirtatious Little Red Riding Hood into an innocent little girl, avoiding any sexual connotations. Very quickly, the tale of Little Red Riding Hood became a hit in Germany and the rest of Europe. Elements from the story were printed on post cards and imitated in parlor games. Even today, the sweet little girl with the red hood embellishes champagne bottles, cheese packages and chocolates. Little Red Riding Hood continues to be en vogue while being constantly reinterpreted. In his children's book "Rothütchen" (Little Red Hat), Geoffroy de Pennart turned her into a recalcitrant girl that even attacks the wolf, reflecting a modern idea of obedient, but self-conscious children. The 1980s were dominated by yet another educational theory. Back then, the objective was nonviolent education. That's why, in a more contemporary version, the wolf didn't devour Litte Red Riding Hood, but restrained himself to controlling her movements with a loop around her foot. That's illustrated here in the book "Le Petit Chaperon Rouge" by Laurence Batigne and Bruno de la Salle. The 1990s saw yet another reinterpretation of the tale. This bold 1993 fantasy by Bettina Bayerl called "Keine Gnade!" (No Mercy!) brought back the obscenity and sexuality that was only hinted at in the original French version. In this version, Burgi Kühnemann portrays Little Red Riding Hood as the real villain who overruns the poor wolf, which is threatened with extinction. Kühnemann is a book artist who works fairy tales. In another version, she draws parallels between Little Red Riding Hood and Hitler, who she claims loved calling himself "Uncle Wolf" and enjoyed being adored for his manliness. There's also a version of the Little Red Riding Hood that does without any moral assessments. In the 1960s, artist Warja Honegger-Lavater depicted the tale only with dots. The resulting radical abstraction permitted all kinds of possible and impossible fantasies on the theme, releasing is from various cultures, eras or age groups.