One-hundred-twenty passengers were injured after a passenger plane skidded off the runway at Istanbul's Sabiha Gokcen airport. Turkish Transport Minister Mehmet Cahit Turhan said that there were no fatalities following the incident, and that most passengers had been able to exit the aircraft on their own. The passenger plane split into three pieces and veered onto a patch of grass next to the runway, in what Turhan called a "rough landing." One of the wings also caught fire, but the blaze was later extinguished. The nose of the plane, belonging to Turkish budget provider Pegasus Airlines, was completely smashed. Read more: Turkish bachelorette party jet crashes in Iranian mountains, killing 11 Television footage shows serious damage to the fuselage, with passengers seen exiting via one of the wings. The airport has also been shut down, with all flights being redirected to Istanbul's main international airport. Firefighters were immediately sent to the scene, and evacuations were underway. Emergency personnel were seen taking some passengers out of the plane and carrying them away on stretchers. Read more: Lion Air crash: Does Indonesia have an air safety problem? Istanbul Governor Ali Yerlikaya said there were 177 people, including 171 passengers and six staff on board the plane, which was flying back to Istanbul from the western city of Izmir. In January, all flights were suspended fom Sabiha Gokcen airport after a Pegasus plane skidded off the runway because of bad weather. The plane, which had arrived from Sharjah, was carrying 164 passengers, all of whom were safely evacuated. The Pegasus Airlines flight from Ankara skidded off the coastal runway when it landed at Trabzon airport in northern Turkey on Saturday night. Images showed the plane hanging from the edge of a muddy cliff, with its nose meters from the Black Sea. In a statement, Pegasus said that its aircraft "had a runway excursion incident," but that all passengers and crew were unhurt. The plane, a Boeing 737-800, nearly plunged into the Black Sea when its wheels got stuck in the muddy slope. Trabzon Governor Yucel Yavuz said investigators were trying to determine what prompted the plane to skid off the runway. Some reports claimed it was most likely caused by a collision between the aircraft and an airborne animal. Images posted by Turkish media showed plumes of black smoke coming from the trapped plane, suggesting a fire might have broken out on board. Passenger Yuksel Gordu told state media that it was a "miracle" all of the 168 people on board escaped uninjured. "We could have burned, exploded, flown into the sea," Gordu said. Another passenger, Fatma Gordu, told Turkey's Dogan news agency that panic erupted on board as the plane skidded off the runway and began sliding down the cliff: "We swerved all of a sudden. The front of the plane crashed and the back was in the air. Everyone panicked." As officials scrambled to pull the plane back onto the runway, Trabzon airport was forced to remain closed for several hours overnight on Saturday. Flights eventually resumed early Sunday morning. Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here. lc/rc (AP, dpa, Reuters)