The party leader of German Chancellor Angela Merkel's conservative CDU, Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, will not run for chancellor in next year's elections, the party said in Berlin on Monday. Kramp-Karrenbauer surprised party leadership on Monday by announcing that she will step down from her position as the head of the party and would not run for chancellor. The jobs should be done by the same person, she is reported to have said. She will organize the process of finding a new candidate by summertime and then step down from her leadership role, the party source said, adding that Merkel wants Kramp-Karrenbauer to remain Germany's defense minister. The CDU will hold a press conference about the decision later on Monday. Thuringia: The final straw The 57-year-old had been handpicked by Merkel to run as her successor in elections to be held in 2021 after being elected head of the CDU in 2018. Since then, AKK, as she is commonly known, has struggled through a series of scandals that have sowed doubt about her ability to lead the country effectively. Most recently, a vote in the state legislature in Thuringia last week saw the CDU and the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) Party collectively backing a centrist candidate, a move that was widely perceived as breaking a political taboo against working with extremist parties in Germany. She had been criticized for her management of the crisis and her inability to unite the party behind her. Her calls for fresh state elections in Thuringia were largely ignored by the party there. Read more: Why is everyone in Germany talking about Thuringia and AfD? 'Full-on political crisis' in CDU The Thuringia crisis didn't directly affect the stability of the government in Berlin, says DW's chief political editor Michaela Küfner. "But it again reaffirms that there is a leadership contest going on behind the scenes. And a key contender for that job, Friedrich Merz, just last week stepped down from his job at BlackRock Germany, the world's largest investment company, to make himself more available." Merkel's party is in a "leadership crisis," says Küfner, and that "once again, there seems to be no alternative to Angela Merkel herself. That's a full-on political crisis within the CDU." In 2018, Kramp-Karrenbauer had emerged victorious in the first grassroots contest for CDU leadership— which is traditionally tied to the chancellorship — winning over Merz, currently vice-president of the business council of the CDU, and German Health Minister Jens Spahn. Thoughts from left, right, and center Responding to the news through a spokesperson on Monday, the business-liberal Merz said, "In such a situation, smart reflection is more important than speaking quickly." At the same time, he took to Twitter to call for economic reforms and tax cuts, both hallmarks of his political identity. Spahn said that he had great respect for the defense minister's decision and that she had united the party. "The cohesion of our party must now be our guiding principle," he wrote on Twitter. Members of an ultra-conservative wing of the CDU on Monday came out in favor of Merz as party head. Parliamentary group leader of Germany's Green party, Katrin Göring-Eckardt, responded to the news by warning the CDU against shifting to the right. "The CDU will now hopefully show that a Christian-Democratic party won't let itself be led around by the right-wing extremists in the AfD," she said. AfD parliamentary group head Alexander Gauland said the decision created an opportunity for the two parties to improve their relations. Kramp-Karrenbauer had "plunged the CDU into chaos with her policy of exclusion," he said. kp/ng (dpa, Reuters) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.