Storm Hanna was upgraded to become the first hurricane of the 2020 Atlantic season Saturday, as the Texas coast braced itself for potential flash flooding, storm surge and tornadoes. The US National Hurricane Center stated that Hanna's top speed had surged to 75 mph (120 kph). The storm was centered roughly 100 miles (160 kilometers) off the coast of Corpus Christi, Texas, and was moving westwards towards the city in the Gulf of Mexico. Read more: The world at 3 degrees: What it means for five cities The center of Hanna was expected to make landfall at hurricane level speed Saturday afternoon or evening, the Hurricane Center confirmed. "The combination of a dangerous storm surge and the tide will cause normally dry areas near the coast to be flooded by rising waters moving inland from the shoreline,'' the Miami-based agency said. A surfer catches a barrel ride as high waves approach the coast of South Padre Island, Texas, due to Tropical Storm Hanna. Tornado threat The threat of tornadoes also loomed on Saturday for parts of the lower to middle Texas coastal plain, forecasters said. A hurricane warning has been administered for Port Mansfield to Mesquite Bay, and a tropical storm warning was still in effect from Barra el Mezquital, Mexico, to Port Mansfield, Texas, and from Mesquite Bay to High Island, Texas. Forecasters warned residents to brace themselves for 6 to 12 inches (15 to 30 centimeters) of rainfall over a 24-hour period in the region, in addition to coastal swells that could cause life-threatening surf and rip current conditions. Read more: Coronavirus threatens millions displaced by extreme weather and conflict Corpus Christi is in Nueces County, one of many COVID-19 hotspots in Texas. Officials in the county announced earlier this week that 60 infants had tested positive for the coronavirus over the course of the first 16 days of this month. A storm gets upgraded to a hurricane once it reaches a sustained speed of 74 mph. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3cqoz jsi/rc (AP, AFP, Reuters) 