Research planned to investigate alleged racial profiling by German police forces has been canceled, an Interior Ministry spokesman said on Sunday. According to the Zeit Online news portal, the ministry decided to drop the study, which was in the "conceptual development" stage, and cited Interior Minister Horst Seehofer as saying there is no need. The term racial profiling indicates increased targeting of ethnic minorities, most commonly by law enforcement agencies. Following waves of protests in the US and elsewhere in response to racism and police violence, Germany's Justice and Interior Ministries last month formulated plans for the research to get an overview of the scale of the issue. On Sunday, a spokesperson for the Justice Ministry refused to comment on the media report but referred to an earlier statement, which said that the study is an important step to understand the phenomenon and discuss possible countermeasures. According to Zeit Online, Seehofer believes that as racial profiling by the federal police is prohibited, it does not have to be separately examined. Instead, stop-and-search checks must be carried out without discrimination, the spokesperson said. The spokesman insisted that incidents of racial profiling in Germany are exceptional cases. Read more: US pays respects to George Floyd at funeral in Texas Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3ep6M 'Latent racism' The study on racial profiling was demanded by Saskia Esken, one of the co-leaders of the center-left SPD, who claimed there was "latent racism in the ranks of the security forces." "Tens of thousands of protesters stood up around the world because the violent death of George Floyd [in the US] during a police operation was not an isolated case," Esken told the Funke Mediengruppe in an interview last month. "German protesters are, meanwhile, interested in the situation on their own doorstep." Read more: Changes to German police law spark fears of surveillance, racial profiling — what you need to know While pointing to the alleged racist bias against minority groups, Esken also noted that the majority of police officers were very critical of such tendencies. She advocated setting up an independent office that would look into complaints against police behavior. According to the Welt am Sonntag newspaper, Seehofer also rejected the demand for an independent office at the federal level to investigate complaints against police. Controversy over the statue of Edward Colston in Bristol was rife for years. On June 7, demonstrators removed the bronze from its pedestal and tossed it into the water. While Colston was working for the Royal African Society, an estimated 84,000 Africans were transported for enslavement; 19,000 of them died along the way. But he went down in history as a benefactor for his donations to charities. Activists accuse Robert Baden-Powell, the man who initiated the Boy Scout movement, of racism, homophobia and admiration for Adolf Hitler. His statue stood on Brownsea Island in southern England. Amid the current wave of monuments being toppled by protesters, local authorities have now removed Baden-Powell's statue as a precaution. Belgium has quite a few statues of King Leopold II. The monarch ruled the country from 1865 to 1909 and established a brutal colonial regime in Congo that is in fact considered one of the most violent in history. Protesters smeared several statues of Leopold II with paint. Authorities removed the above statue from its pedestal in the Antwerp suburb of Ekeren and sent it to a museum depot. In the US, too, disputes have flared over monuments dedicated to controversial historical figures. Among others, protesters have targeted Christopher Columbus. A statue in Boston was beheaded (photo). North American indigenous groups reject the worship of Columbus because his expeditions enabled the colonization of the continent and the genocide of its autochthonous population in the first place. Some people see Columbus as one of the most important figures in world history, but for many people in Latin America the explorer's name stands for the beginning of a painful era. From the perspective of the indigenous population, Spanish colonialism is a dark chapter in their history. In Latin America, too, statues of Columbus have been destroyed or damaged in the past. Jefferson Davis was President of the Confederate States of America, one of the leaders in the country's mid 19th-century Civil War. Protesters toppled and spray-painted the Confederate president's statue in Richmond, Virginia. House speaker Nancy Pelosi urged the removal of Confederate statues from the US Capitol because they were monuments to men "who advocated cruelty and barbarism." Another Confederate statue in Richmond, this one a monument to General Robert E. Lee, is to be removed in the next few days. Governor Ralph Northam has given orders to take down the monument. Many African Americans regards the statues of Confederate politicians and soldiers as symbols of oppression and slavery. Author: Rayna Breuer (db) 'No structural racism problem' Several German politicians have, meanwhile, rejected Esken's criticism. Justice Minister Christine Lambrecht said a new office to process complaints would be superfluous as police departments already have teams dealing with the issue. Lambrecht, who is part of Esken's SPD party, also said she did not see "a particular, structural racism problem" in police forces in Germany. Conservative Friedrich Merz, who hopes to take the reins of Angela Merkel's center-right CDU party, said that there was no "latent racism" in the police and said it was "unreliable, to transpose images from America one-on-one to Germany." The US had a history of slavery and had failed to solve "the problem of racial discrimination," but it was different in Germany, Merz claimed. Read more: Berlin passes first German state anti-discrimination law Germany's Basic Law expressly forbids discrimination due to "gender, origin, race, language, homeland and heritage, beliefs, religious or political views." In 2018, however, a German judge ruled that authorities could use skin color as criteria for their work in cases "when the police have concrete indications that persons with darker skin incur criminal penalties over-proportionally more often" in a certain area. Read more: Muslim Council demands apology for Cologne police 'racial profiling' shs/mm (dpa, Zeit Online)  