The tournament bracket for the remainder of the Champions League was set on Friday, with the quarterfinal and semifinal matchups drawn out in Nyon, Switzerland. Bayern Munich await Barcelona or Napoli in the quarterfinals should they defeat Chelsea in the last 16. Both sets of teams were unable to finish their Round-of-16 ties before the Champions League was halted due to the coronavirus pandemic. Read more: Serge Gnabry provides cutting edge as Bayern Munich machine crushes Chelsea Bayern hold a 3-0 advantage over Chelsea after the first leg in March, and the second leg is scheduled to take place at the beginning of August in Munich's Allianz Arena. Napoli and Barcelona are tied 1-1 after the first leg in Naples, and the second leg in Barcelona's Camp Nou is also scheduled for August. RB Leipzig, who were able to see out their defeat of Tottenham before the pandemic-induced break, are set to face Atletico Madrid in the quarterfinals. Europe's biggest club competition has been on hiatus since March due to the coronavirus outbreak. The pandemic has forced UEFA, Europe's football confederation, to condense the tournament to one-off games from its two-legged format and hold the remaining matches, including the final, in Lisbon, Portugal. The quarterfinals are scheduled for August 12-15 and the semifinals for August 18-19. The final, which was originally supposed to take place in Istanbul's Ataturk Olympic Stadium, is set to take place on August 23 in Lisbon's Estadio da Luz. Europa League draw Though the last 16 ties in Europe's second-tier international competition must still be completed, UEFA also set up the bracket for the remainder of the tournament. Bayer Leverkusen, who hold a 3-1 aggregate advantage over Glasgow-side Rangers, will play either Spain's Getafe or Italian side Inter Milan in the quarterfinals. Wolfsburg and Eintracht Frankfurt could potentially square off in the quarterfinals if they advance to the last eight. However, both sides face deficits in their last 16 ties after home losses in the first leg in March. Wolfsburg trail Shakhtar Donetsk of Ukraine 2-1 and Eintracht Frankfurt are 3-0 on aggregate behind Basel.