All updates in Universal Coordinated Time (UTC/GMT) 06:37 Brazil has reported a record number of new cases, with 67,860 new infections confirmed within a 24-hour period, the health ministry in the capital Brasilia said. Brazil, Latin America's largest and most populous country, has over 2.2 million confirmed infections and a death toll of 82,771. The country has the second-highest number of confirmed infections in the world, but the real figures are believed to be far higher due to insufficient testing. Brazil's far-right populist president, Jair Bolsonaro, initially downplayed the virus as a "little flu," and rebuffed calls extensive preventive measures. On Wednesday, however, the Ministry of Communications confirmed that Bolsonaro, 65, tested positive for the virus for a second time. Bolsonaro has no fever and his beathing, heartbeat and blood pressure are normal, CNN Brazil reported. Several of his ministers have also been diagnosed with COVID-19. 06:20 The US reported more than 1,100 new deaths for a second day in a row on Wednesday, including a record one-day rise in fatalities in Alabama, California, Nevada and Texas. The US has not seen back-to-back days of so many fatalities since late May. Deaths rose by 1,101 on Wednesday to a total of over 143,000, after increasing by 1,141 on Tuesday. The states with the highest death tolls on Wedneday were Texas with 197, California at 159, Florida at 140 and Ohio at 106. While deaths are rising in the United States for a second week in a row, they remain well below levels seen in April, when on average 2,000 people a day died from the virus. The US — the country with the highest number of both deaths and confirmed cases — has reported 143,190 deaths and nearly 4 million cases. 03:50 South Korea has fallen into a recession after the coronavirus pandemic caused its worst economic performance in more than 20 years. Asia’s fourth-largest economy shrank by 2.9% year-on-year in the second quarter, the country's central bank said, the biggest fall since 1998. The country’s exports, which account for 40% of its GDP, fell 16.6%  on-quarter, the sharpest drop since 1963. "It’s possible for us to see China-style rebound in the third quarter as the pandemic slows and activity in overseas production, schools, and hospitals resume," said Hong Nam-ki, South Korea’s Finance Minister. 03:46 Germany has registered 569 more cases of coronavirus in the past 24 hours, according to the Robert Koch Institute (RKI), bringing total infections in the country to 203,368. The death toll rose by six to 9,101. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3fhmo 03:35 The EU has approved €80 million ($93 million) in aid for Honduras to help the impoverished Central American country's health system manage the coronavirus pandemic, an EU representative has confirmed. Despite instituting measures to slow the spread of the virus, local hospitals have struggled to keep up with the growing number of coronavirus patients there. Honduras has recorded 35,345 cases of COVID-19 and 988 fatalities. "In Honduras, €80 million will be allocated in the areas of health, early recovery, measures to aid economic recovery, jobs and human rights," said Alessandro Palmero, the EU's representative to Honduras. The Honduran economy is expected to contract by as much as 3.9% this year, with 500,000 jobs lost. Around 62% of the country's population already lives in poverty. 03:21 Senators in Chile have voted through a controversial bill allowing citizens to withdraw 10% of their pension savings in order to provide economic relief from the coronavirus crisis. The government of President Sebastian Pinera is strongly opposed to the bill, though polls suggest it holds widespread public support. It was approved by 29 votes to 13 with one abstention. The bill's swift passage as well as surprise cross-party support has pushed Pinera's center-right government to the verge of collapse.  It also ushered in concerns of dire economic straits ahead. Senators will now debate amendments to the bill before passing it onto Congress for approval. If passed, Pinera could then choose to veto it, but such a move would likely reignite the protests over income inequality and living conditions that took place in Chile last year. The government has argued that its proposed coronavirus rescue package — equal to nearly 12% of the country's gross domestic product — will be enough to help Chileans left unemployed or impoverished by the four-month coronavirus shutdown. Pinera's government argues that pulling funds from the country's pension fund will reduce already low pension payouts, causing a shock to the local economy. A poll published last week showed 86% of respondents supporting the pension withdrawals, with 82% saying they would take advantage of the offer. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3difx 03:01 Mexico's foreign ministry has announced that China plans to provide a $1 billion loan to make its coronavirus vaccine available to countries across Latin America and the Caribbean. China made the pledge in a virtual meeting between ministers from some Latin American and Caribbean countries, Mexico's foreign ministry said in a statement. 01:37 World leaders will not be gathering in New York for the UN General Assembly in September due to the coronavirus pandemic, news agency Reuters reports. The 193-member General Assembly agreed that they will instead send video statements. "Each Member State, observer State, and the European Union can submit a pre-recorded statement of its Head of State, Vice-President, Crown Prince or Princess, Head of Government, Minister or Vice-Minister, which will be played in the General Assembly Hall … after an introduction by their representative who is physically present," according to the decision. Read more:  Life after lockdown: Virtual events could be here to stay 01:13 More than 4 million people have been infected with the coronavirus in Latin America and the Caribbean. The region is the worst-hit in the world, with Brazil alone accounting for over half the confirmed cases. Mexico, another hard-hit nation, has reported 6,019 new cases and 790 additional fatalities, taking the country's total to 362,274 infections and 41,190 deaths. The Mexican government, however, has said the actual numbers are significantly higher than the confirmed cases. 00:52 A cafeteria employee who works in the same building as some White House staffers has tested positive for the coronavirus, an NBC News reporter has confirmed on Twitter. The White House is currently identifying people who may have come in contact with the employee at the Eisenhower Executive Office Building, which is located next to the White House, NBC News reporter Josh Lederman said. The White House Medical Office has determined that the risk of virus transmission is low, he said. 00:18 South Africa has reported 572 coronavirus-related fatalities, a record single-day increase, taking the total number of deaths to 5,940. With almost 395,000 confirmed cases, the country is the worst-hit in Africa and among the top five globally. Most of the cases have been concentrated in the provinces of Gauteng and the Western Cape. Read more: Africa facing coronavirus 'acceleration,' WHO warns The African Development Bank on Wednesday approved a $288 million (€249 million) loan to South Africa to help the country deal with the economic fallout of the pandemic. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3fiDQ 00:11 Brazil has reported a new record increase in daily coronavirus cases as the country struggles to bring the outbreak under control. The Health Ministry confirmed 67,860 new infections and 1,284 new deaths in the past 24 hours. Read more: Brazil's favelas forced to fight coronavirus alone Meanwhile, President Jair Bolsonaro tested positive for the third time since July 7, when he first announced he had contracted the disease. His office said he would extend his two-week quarantine and suspend upcoming travel plans. "President Jair Bolsonaro's health continues to improve, under the treatment of the presidential medical team," his office said in a statement. The far-right leader has often been criticized for downplaying the pandemic, comparing the infection to a "little flu." With more than 2.2 million cases, Brazil has the second-biggest outbreak in the world after the US. 00:00 Catch up on Wednesday's coronavirus news here. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3fUvU In reporting on the coronavirus pandemic, unless otherwise specified, DW uses figures provided by the Johns Hopkins University (JHU) Coronavirus Resource Center in the United States. JHU updates figures in real-time, collating data from world health organizations, state and national governments, and other public official sources, all of whom have their own systems for compiling information. Germany's national statistics are compiled by its public health agency, the Robert Koch Institute (RKI). These figures depend on data transmission from state and local levels and are updated around once a day, which can lead to deviation from JHU. adi/nm (AP, AFP, Reuters, dpa)  