At least 80 people have been killed after two days of protests in Ethiopia following the killing of a popular singer. The Oromia Region had "recorded around 81 deaths" on Tuesday, while the opposition Oromo Federalist Congress said nine more people had perished in violent unrest Wednesday in the town of Ambo. Musician Hachalu Hundessa was shot dead on Monday night in what protesters described as a targeted killing. Protests initially broke out the following morning in the capital Addis Ababa and across the surrounding Oromia region. Businesses were set alight and protesters and police appeared to have clashed. "We were not prepared for this," a police spokesman said to Reuters. The dead include protesters and members of the security forces. Protesters said the killing of Hachalu had a "political motive" and have blamed authorities. Ethiopia's prime minister, Abiy Ahmed, expressed his condolences and tweeted that an investigation was currently under way. Read more: Hachalu Hundessa: Killing of Ethiopian singer sparks unrest Opposition figure arrested Leading opposition politician Jawar Mohammed was also arrested amid the protests, in a move that may inflame protests further. Mohammed was detained following an altercation with police over the body of Hundessa. He is one of at least 35 who were arrested, police said. Hachalu's body was being transported to his native town of Ambo, where he is set to be buried later this week. Why has Hachalu's death caused protests? Hachalu's music made him an advocate of the Oromo ethnic group —  Ethiopia's largest — who say they are excluded from power and neglected by the government in the country, which is made up of multiple ethnicities. According to DW correspondent Colleta Wanjohi, Hundessa was considered "an icon of revolution — especially in the Oromo ethnic group." Prime Minister and Nobel Peace Prize winner Abiy Ahmed, who is Oromo, was elected in 2018 with a mandate that he would work to dispel ethnic tensions in the country. However, he has seen an increase in violence under his tenure. Human Rights Watch says that Abiy's reforms that saw the loosening of government security organs have led to a collapse of law and order in certain areas. ed/stb (AP, AFP, dpa, Reuters)