Hong Kong's opposition party on Saturday kicked off primary elections aimed at choosing democracy candidates for the city's upcoming parliamentary election. The vote took place less than two weeks after China instituted a new security law that many fear will erode democracy in the semi-autonomous territory. "The primary election is our first time to let Beijing know Hong Kongers never bow down to China," said pro-democracy activist Joshua Wong on Saturday before voting began. "We urge the world to put Hong Kong under the global spotlight." The elections, organized by the Group Power for Democracy, seek to secure a majority of more than 35 seats — more than half of the total number —  for pro-democracy candidates in Hong Kong's Legislative Council election in September. This would give democracy candidates greater power to veto pro-establishment legislation. DW's East Asia Correspondent Phoebe Kong said in the first six hours of the primary, more than 130 thousand people had turned out to vote. "This is way higher than was expected by the organizer," she said. After polls closed at 9 p.m. (1300 UTC) on Saturday, organizers said some 230,000 people had cast their votes. Voting in the two-day primary will continue on Sunday. "We've reached our basic (turn out) target, but we won't be satisfied by this ... The more people come out to vote, the higher the primary is recognized," said Au Nok-hin, a former lawmaker and one of the primary's organizers. Police raid polling office Last November, three million people voted in Hong Kong's District Council elections, handing a landslide victory to the pro-democracy camp, who won 17 of the 18 District Councils. Support stemmed from opposition to a proposed extradition law that would have allowed people arrested in Hong Kong to be sent to mainland China for trial, a bill that has since been withdrawn. The bill sparked months of violent anti-government protests, which have waned since security forces arrested over 300 people on July 1, the day after the new national security law went into effect. The district-wide elections, which run through Sunday, were also thrown into question on Friday when Hong Kong police raided the office of a co-organizer responsible for election polling. Read more: Can free press in Hong Kong survive national security law? Voting could violate Beijing's law Many regard the opposition's primary as a litmus test of greater resistance to the security law. Instituted by China last month, the law targets secession, subversion, terrorism and collusion with foreign forces. Read more: Opinion: China to rule Hong Kong by fear with new national security law Hong Kongers face uncertainty over what constitutes a violation. In a government broadcast on Thursday, Secretary for Mainland Constitutional Affairs Erick Tsang said organizers and participants in the primary elections could be in violation of the new law. He said that polls might be manipulated to interfere with elections in September. kp, mvb/ng (AFP, dpa,Reuters)  