It's set all the alarm bells ringing: Parts of the German army's elite Special Forces Commando (KSK) have shown right-wing extremist tendencies. This at a time of growing fears about far-right political violence, even the possibility of political murder. Defense Minister Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer's response was too long in coming. The minister spoke of an "unhealthy sense of elitism," also among those in positions of responsibility – a "toxic leadership." This is shocking: People who have observed the German army closely and critically for years say "one could not have imagined such a thing." And the shock is certainly intensified by the fact that KSK ammunition has gone missing — and not just a few bullets. At present they're talking about 85,000 rounds of ammunition and 62 kilos of explosives. Read more: Germany to sack extremist soldiers — and faster Every missing round is one too many Every few weeks Germany hears reports about lists of names of "undesirables", which are said to be circulating in right-wing extremist networks. Sometimes the names are said to belong to politicians, sometimes journalists, sometimes representatives of the Jewish or Muslim communities or of civil society. Earlier this week, it was reported that the names of leading politicians from both the governing coalition and the opposition, including some ministers, appeared on one of these lists — along with their private addresses and phone numbers. In a threating situation like this, 85,000 missing rounds of ammunition are 85,000 too many. Even Germany's most senior soldier, the Inspector General of the Bundeswehr Eberhard Zorn, has said that material like this could be used, for example, in an assassination attempt. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3edne The information that has now come to light touches on the essence not only of the elite unit but of the Bundeswehr as a whole. It also raises doubts as to whether the suspension of conscription in mid-2011, which was welcomed by almost all politicians at the time, was really such a sensible idea. Just a few years after its foundation, and in the light of the terrible history of the Third Reich, the Federal Republic of Germany established new armed forces that were committed to democracy and human rights. Since then, the talk has always been of "citizens in uniform", a special culture, so-called "inner leadership." "Inner leadership" doesn't exist in this form in any other army. It refers to the responsibility of each individual in the troop, and the individual's loyalty to the constitution. The principle applies to all branches of the armed forces, including the KSK, which was established in 1996. It is a responsibility incumbent not only on senior officers and superiors, but on every soldier of every rank: Anyone who observes a negative development is required to speak up. Frustrated soldiers and a defense system struggling to repair its way into a fully functioning military. And a new defense minister who will have to regain confidence from army representatives. Ageing helicopters have proved a big hurdle for the German military. The Bundeswehr has grounded all its 53 Tiger helicopters, after engineers said technical faults needed attention. Defense services were also forced to recall 22 Sea Lynx anti-submarine helicopters in 2014, confirming newspaper reports of malfunction. The Eurofighter is the German military's most modern fighter jet. As a result of a manufacturing error, only four of the 128 planes were in action in 2018. A pilot was killed in June 2019 when two Eurofighters collided in the northeastern state of Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, prompting fresh calls for further restrictions on the plane's use. Tornado fighters have been flying for over 40 years. CDU plans to replace the ageing planes were thrown into question by the center-left SPD in February 2019. But some officials claim flying the Tornado after 2030 could cost Germany around €8 billion ($9 billion) in repair costs. New Puma tanks for the German military came into use in 2018. Only 27 of the 71 Pumas were immediately ready for deployment — which prompted a fresh backlash against then Defense Secretary Ursula von der Leyen. New F125 frigates — but they are't ready yet. German plans to replace the old frigates stalled in 2018, due to there not being enough spare parts to make them seaworthy. Officials also said Germany would have to soon stop signing up to NATO and UN missions in the same year — the country just did not have enough ships spare. She has not been in the job long, but Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer has inherited a huge problem. Old equipment being grounded is now a regular and pressing occurrence. Former Defense Minister Ursula von der Leyen signed a deal to develop a "Future Combat Air System" in June — which is scheduled to replace Germany's air force by 2040. Author: Sven Pöhle / db Failure of "inner leadership" So now, when Kramp-Karrenbauer talks about a "wall of silence" and people keeping quiet, it means that this core principle of German soldiership has failed. This is true of those in positions of responsibility within the units themselves, and it is true of the supervisory authority. It is also true, incidentally, of the churches' military chaplaincy. Because KSK deployments abroad can always be a matter of life and death, both Catholic and Protestant clergy accompanied the unit's forces in Afghanistan. Living and working in such close proximity, did they really notice nothing? The minister says the KSK is now "on parole," and is being given a last chance. Those in charge have until October to conduct further investigations, make decisions, and dismiss people. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Xem7 However, it should be remembered that the Bundeswehr is — and Germany is proud of this — a parliamentary army. Only the Bundestag can send German soldiers on missions. Right now, parliament must be surprised, and not only by the shocking news of right-wing extremism. Many politicians are also angry that, in the current situation, the media were briefed before the information reached members of parliament. This is highly unusual. Right now, it's hard to know whether the period between now and the October deadline represents a grace period, or simply time added on.  