The International Olympics Committee (IOC) apologized on Friday for a tweet it posted recalling the 1936 Olympics in Berlin. The social media post was part of a series of celebratory tweets to mark one year before the delayed Olympics in Tokyo. The tweet, which was posted on Thursday, read: "This is turning out to be quite a Throwback Thursday already! Berlin 1936 marked the 1st Olympic torch relay to bring the flame to the cauldron. We can't wait for the next one. Stronger Together." The tweet also included footage of the Games which included Olympic greats such as the United States' Jesse Owens and Germany's Luz Long, as well as the occasion's iconic flame. The IOC has now deleted the post and written an eight-part response on Twitter that concluded by saying: "We apologize to those who feel offended by the film of the Olympic Games Berlin 1936. We have deleted this film, which was part of the series of films featuring the message of unity and solidarity, from the Olympics Twitter account." Read more: Interior Minister dismisses 2036 Olympic bid Critical response Earlier on Friday the post drew widespread condemnation. The Auschwitz Memorial's official Twitter account said: "For 2 weeks the Nazi dictatorship camouflaged its racist, militaristic character. It exploited the Games to impress foreign spectators with an image of a peaceful, tolerant Germany. Later, Germany's expansionism, the persecution of Jews & other "enemies of the state" accelerated." After seizing power in 1933, the Nazis began to systematically persecute and push out Jews — including Jewish athletes. They were excluded from their sports clubs, banned from national teams, titles they had won were taken back and they were prohibited from participating in competitions because they were Jewish. The Nuremberg race laws had been passed a year prior to the Olympics. The 1936 Olympics in the German capital were an opportunity for Adolf Hitler to promote his government and ideals of racial supremacy and antisemitism. Adolf Hitler watches on in Berlin's Olympic Stadium, alongside the Italian Crown Prince Read more: How the Nazis treated Jewish athletes The Tokyo Olympics were due to take place from July 24 to August 9 this year but have been postponed until July 23 next year due to the coronavirus pandemic.  