NASA's Mars 2020 mission aims to land a new rover called "Perseverance" on the Red Planet. As with other Mars missions run by China and the United Arab Emirates this year, NASA's is scheduled to launch between July and August 2020, and begin operation at Mars by February 2021. What's in a name? NASA launched a "Name the Rover" competition in 2019 for its latest Mars mission. Children at schools in the U.S. were invited to propose a name and write essays, explaining why their choices. The competition was won by a middle school student called Alexander Mather, and NASA's new rover became "Perseverance." Read more: What's the science on the Emirates Mars Mission? Speaking at Mather's school, Thomas Zurbuchen, associate administrator of the Science Mission Directorate, said: "Alex and his classmates are the Artemis Generation, and they're going to be taking the next steps into space that lead to Mars. That inspiring work will always require perseverance." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3cpxV Aside from that, NASA launched a "Send your name to Mars" campaign. More than 10.9 million people submitted their names, which have been stenciled by electron beam onto three fingernail-sized silicon chips, along with the essays of the 155 finalists in NASA's "Name the Rover" contest. A legacy of Mars missions The U.S. has been involved in numerous Mars missions, including international collaborations. Its first Mars mission was Mariner 3, an attempted "flyby" in October 1962. That was followed by Mariner 4, a successful flyby, in November of that same year. Viking 1 and Viking 2 in 1975 consisted of a Mars orbiter and lander, much like China's Tianwen-1, which also launches in July 2020. Read more: The facts on Tianwen-1: Mars orbiter and rover An Atlas 5 rocket, similar to the one on the Mars 2020 mission, launched NASA's InSight lander to Mars in 2018 NASA's current Mars missions include the Curiosity rover, and the InSight lander, which is probing the Red Planet's seismic activity. Mars 2020 "launch window" The launch is currently scheduled for July 22, but could be postponed through to August 11, 2020, depending on launch conditions, which can be affected by bad weather. Where's the launch site? Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, Florida, USA. What's it riding on? The "launch vehicle" is an United Launch Alliance Atlas 5 rocket. When will it arrive? The rover is scheduled to land on Mars between January 31 and February 18, 2021. Where will it land? Jezero Crater,  Mars. The Mars Helicopter, an autonomous rotorcraft that's part of Mars 2020, will demonstrate the viability of heavier-than-air vehicles on Mars Why launch now? Every 18 to 24 months, Earth and Mars align in such a way that the journey — or trajectory — is effectively shorten from a nine-month trip to a seven-month trip. Failing to launch during this "launch window" would mean the mission would have to wait another two years. But scientists are always eager to get their hands on new data, and quick! There is a lot of competition out there, too. Read more: A question about race in space The mission As with many Mars missions, Perseverance is about life on Mars — understanding past life on the planet, and the potential for life on Mars, which is a key question in astrobiology. Building on other missions, including a rover called Opportunity and a still-active orbiter called MAVEN, Perseverance rover will "follow the water," as NASA puts it. It will investigate water below the surface of Mars ("subsurface water"). Perseverance will seek signs of ancient life and collect rock and soil samples for possible return to Earth. MOXIE — an instrument on the rover Perseverance — will try to produce oxygen from the Martian carbon dioxide It will also aim to demonstrate technology that NASA wants for future human and robotic exploration of Mars. The Mars 2020 mission has four scientific goals. Goal 1: Determine whether life ever arose on Mars. Goal 2: Characterize the climate of Mars, as will the Emirates Mars Mission which launches in July 2020. Goal 3: Characterize the geology of Mars. Goal 4: Prepare for human exploration of the planet. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3M9Eb Instruments on the rover The rover has seven primary instruments, including an advanced camera system with panoramic and stereoscopic, and the Mars Oxygen ISRU Experiment (MOXIE), which will attempt to produce oxygen from Martian atmospheric carbon dioxide. Read more: Scientists detect first 'marsquake' with InSight lander A spectrometer called SHERLOC will be the first of its kind to provide fine-scale imaging, using an ultraviolet (UV) laser to determine mineralogy and detect organic compounds on Mars. Shipping the Mars 2020 rover on an Air Force C-17 transport plane Among the rover's many technical specifications is another first for robotic exploration of Mars: the rover's two microphones. NASA says this should make it possible for Perseverance to "touch, taste, and finally hear the sounds of Mars." It will use a process called "sample caching" to drill for and store rock and soil samples. Those samples will be stored in tubes on the Martian surface. If it succeeds, it will be the first mission to do that, and "pave the way for future missions" — perhaps including Japan's MMX mission (current launch planned for 2024), which aims to bring samples from the Martian moon, Phobos, back to Earth. International collaboration NASA has hundreds of agreements with many nations around the world, including "many partners providing support and instrumentation for every one of NASA's missions to Mars, including the Mars 2020 rover, one of many precursors planned to support humans visiting the Red Planet," as former NASA administrator, Charles Bolden wrote in a blog post in 2016. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3ZLei Chances of success Space is never easy. But NASA has succeeded in landing robotic missions on Mars before — and after the launch from Earth, landing is one of the trickiest maneuvers. Read more: Why NASA turned Apollo tough guy pilots to geologists Perseverance will use NASA's "proven landing system," but will also seek to improve the system. The Mars 2020 landing system includes a parachute, descent vehicle, and an approach called a "skycrane maneuver" for lowering the rover on a tether to the surface. A new technology called Terrain-Relative Navigation (TRN) will help the rover to avoid dangerous terrain during its decent through the Martian atmosphere. And a microphone will enable engineers on Earth to monitor the sounds of the rover during entry, decent and landing — arguably, the hardest part. Americans showed their pride over the 1969 moon landing with events across the country. The Washington Monument, a 169-meter (555 feet) pillar of marble in the US capital, was turned into a display with images of the lunar mission and a moving projection of the 111-meter Saturn V rocket, which took the Apollo 11 astronauts to the moon. US Vice President Mike Pence (left) praised the Apollo 11 team as "heroes" at a celebration at the US spaceport Cape Canaveral. Half a century ago, a team consisting of pilot Michael Collins, Buzz Aldrin (right) and Neil Armstrong took off from the US base to reach Earth's natural satellite. Armstrong, the first man to set foot on the moon, died in 2012. This picture, taken by Armstrong, shows Aldrin planting a long sheet of foil designed to capture material radiated by the sun. The two men stayed on the lunar surface for a little over 2 1/2 hours. On Saturday, NASA replayed the original broadcast of the landing seen by half a billion people in 1969. Australians also marked the Apollo 11 anniversary by gathering around the Parkes Radio Telescope for a screening of the 2000 film "The Dish." The movie tells the story of Australians and NASA employees working together and using the Parkes telescope to support the moon landing. Parkes was one of three tracking stations around the world tasked with beaming live pictures of the event. In Wistow, Leicestershire, east of Birmingham, the owners of an 8-acre maze that attracts more than 25,000 visitors every summer chose to mark the 50th anniversary of the moon landing with a design depicting an astronaut. Further south in London, the city marked the jubilee by showing a mosaic image of the moon at Piccadilly Circus at the moment of the 1969 touchdown. British artist Helen Marshall created the image out of thousands of photos sent by members of the public. The mosaic was projected simultaneously in London, New York and Singapore. In Shanghai, an artistic installation by UK artist Luke Jerram shows a high-definition image of the Earth taken in 1972. When people view the installation from 211 meters (about 700 feet) away, it would be exactly the same as the view from the moon in 1969. To make the experience more vivid, there are over 1,000 square meters of simulated moon land, where visitors can leave their footprints. NASA plans to send new astronauts to the moon by 2024 with its Artemis program, named after the goddess and twin sister of Apollo in Greek mythology. The program is set to include a platform that would orbit the moon, called Gateway, with astronauts traveling in the Orion crew capsule (pictured). The ultimate goal, however, is much further away: a journey to Mars. While the Apollo 11 veterans attended the celebrations in the US, a team of astronauts took off for the International Space Station (ISS) from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan. The team includes American Andrew Morgan, Russian Alexander Skvortsov, and Italian Luca Parmitano. The trio modeled their mission patches after the ones used by the famous 1969 team. Author: Darko Janjevic