The Emirates Mars Mission aims to send an unmanned  spacecraft, or probe, into Martian orbit. As with other Mars missions this year, run by China and the USA — Tianwen-1 and Mars 2020, respectively — the UAE's mission is scheduled to launch between July and August 2020 and begin operation at Mars by February 2021. What's in a name? The probe's name is "Al-Amal" — Arabic for "hope" — and as such, the name is pretty self-explanatory. But Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid, vice president and prime minister of the UAE and ruler of the Emirate of Dubai, has said the government chose the name from "thousands of suggestions […] as it sends a message of optimism to millions of young Arabs." Read more: The facts on Tianwen-1: Mars orbiter and rover The Emirates Mars Mission Hope Probe being built in a "clean room" "Arab civilization once played a great role in contributing to human knowledge and will play that role again," Vice President Mohammed bin Rashid said. "The Hope Probe embodies the culture of possibilities deeply rooted in the UAE's approach, philosophy, and journey of accelerating development." A first for the UAE Hope is the UAE's first interplanetary mission. The operation aims to provide the global scientific community with novel data. The probe will fly around Mars in a way that's never been done before. The mission was announced in 2014 following a feasibility study in 2013 —  a mere seven years from concept to launch. UAE's space sector is young and small  but it has a successful track record.  It has been vibrant in Earth observation for about a decade. In 2006 the national space agency, run by the Mohammed Bin Rashid Space Centre (MBRSC), started a knowledge transfer program with South Korea. That collaboration has produced a clutch of Earth observation satellites, including DubaiSat-1 and DubaiSat-2, which launched in 2009 and 2013. They were followed by a nanosatellite called Nayif-1 in 2017. In 2018, the MBRSC launched its first "100% UAE-designed and manufactured" remote-sensing satellite,  KhalifaSat. Read more: The facts on Perseverance: Mars 2020 Rover The MRBSC also has an astronaut program. Hazzaa Al-Mansoori became the first Emirati in space when he flew to the International Space Station (ISS)  on a scientific mission in 2019. Mars 2020 "launch window" The launch is currently scheduled for July 14 but could be postponed through to mid-August 2020, depending on weather conditions or other technical issues. Where's the launch site? The Hope Probe will be launched from the Tanegashima Space Center in Japan. The same site was used for the KhalifaSat in 2018.  The UAE has also launched missions from Kazakhstan,  Russia, and India. What's it riding on? A Japanese H-IIA rocket will carry the probe into space. Two stages of a Japanese H-IIA rocket in preparation for the Emirates Mars Mission probe, Hope When will it arrive? The plan is for Hope to enter into its Martian orbit by February 2021 to coincide with the UAE's 50th anniversary celebrations. So, what's so special about Hope's orbit? Hope will have an elliptical orbit ranging from about 20,000 kilometers at its lowest to 43,000 kilometers at its highest point. Scientists have designed the orbit to allow them to explore the planet's "diurnal," or day-to-night cycle. And that's what has never been done before. Why launch now? Every 18 to 24 months, Earth and Mars align in such a way that the journey — or trajectory — is effectively shortened from a nine-month to a seven-month trip. Failing to begin the trip during this "launch window" would mean the mission would need to wait another two years. But that wouldn't fit with UAE's 50th anniversary celebrations, so Hope has got to go now. The mission Hope has three scientific objectives, but the main goal is to provide the first complete picture of the Martian atmosphere. And once it's been verified, that data will be open to the global space research community. Goal 1: To understand the climate dynamics of Mars and the planet's global weather map by characterizing its lower atmosphere. Goal 2: To explain how the weather on Mars affects the escape of hydrogen and oxygen from its atmosphere. Goal 3: To understand the structure and variability of hydrogen and oxygen in the upper atmosphere, and identify why Mars is losing those gases into space. Read more: What's the science on the Emirates Mars Mission? The data will be collected at Mars for an entire Martian year. Another key objective is to offer the global science community new and useful insights about Mars and to further our understanding of how and why Mars is uninhabitable for humans — why its atmosphere wouldn't protect us the same way our atmosphere does on Earth. But it's not all altruistic. The UAE is desperately keen to expand its science and technology sector to transform the country into more of a knowledge-based economy as the global demand for oil decreases. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3dIPS Instruments on the probe The Hope probe features three instruments: the Emirates eXploration Imager (EXI), the Emirates Mars InfraRed Spectrometer (EMIRS), and the Emirates Mars Ultraviolet Spectrometer (EMUS). EXI: Will study the lower atmosphere of Mars and capture high-resolution images. It will measure the optical depth of water ice in the atmosphere and analyze the Martian ozone. EMIRS: Will study the Martian lower atmosphere. It will measure the global distribution of dust, ice clouds, water vapor, and temperature. EMUS: Will measure the levels and variability of carbon monoxide and oxygen in the Martian thermosphere. It will also measure oxygen and hydrogen in the exosphere. International collaboration This mission is all about collaboration. The UAE is keen on international collaboration, but it says it wants to build a community of Emirati scientists and engineers The Mohammed Bin Rashid Space Centre has struck partnerships with the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics at the University of Colorado, Boulder; the Space Sciences Laboratory at the University of California, Berkeley; and the School of Earth and Space Exploration at Arizona State University. Read more: Eta Carinae: Revolving binary stars whip up winds in space It has also collaborated with the University College London,  which has produced a "value analysis" report on UAE's use of space to transform its future. Chances of success Space is never easy.  A lot can go wrong. But UAE had success launching the KhalifaSat from Japan, and it was on the same kind of rocket — so, that's a good start. Artist's impression of The Hope / Al-Amal Probe orbiting Mars Its Earth observation satellites have done well, so there is a good chance that Hope will successfully enter its Martian orbit and "wake up" for its mission next February. Whether Hope works or not, the UAE have bigger plans in space. The UAE want to establish "the first inhabitable human settlement" on Mars by 2117. Part of that plan is its Mars Science City, a collection of laboratories that will investigate the planet, as well as food and energy challenges there and here. Tech visionary Musk intends to revolutionize transportation, both on earth and in space, and the way humans lead their lives. Over the past two decades, the South African-born American entrepreneur has emerged as one of Silicon Valley's most recognized faces worldwide. Musk was cofounder of Paypal, which was acquired by eBay for $1.4 billion (€1.2 billion) in 2002. In 2002, Musk founded SpaceX, an aerospace manufacturer and space transport services company currently valued at over $20 billion. He wants to make space travel cheaper and, eventually, enable human life on Mars, thus giving human kind a chance at becoming multi-planetary species. SpaceX's Falcon and Dragon rocket programs both already deliver payloads into Earth's orbit. The company has said it wants to launch its Mars-bound cargo flight in 2022, followed by the first Mars flight with passengers in 2024. After founding SpaceX, Musk set up Tesla in 2003 to come up with electric autonomous vehicles and renewable energy solutions. But production bottlenecks have plagued the company, with much of its future banked on the Model 3, its first mid-price, mass-market vehicle. After the foray into electric cars, Musk last year opened a new chapter in his book of visions as he unveiled the prototype of a futuristic all-electric heavy truck. The vehicle — dubbed the Tesla Semi — is set to go into production in 2019. It would boast 500 miles of range, a battery and motors that will last 1 million miles and cheaper total operating costs than diesel models, Musk claimed. Besides running SpaceX and Tesla, Musk has also invested in the solar energy company SolarCity to turn his vision of a solar-powered future into a reality. Musk said houses equipped with Tesla's Solar Roof would feed energy to Powerwall, a sleek storage unit designed to act as an electricity fill-up station for both the house and a Tesla electric car. In 2015, Musk unveiled Powerwall, a home battery unit with a selling price of $3,500 for 10kWh and $3,000 for 7kWh. The Powerwall can be controlled via one's phone, from anywhere. But slow production rates have proved to be a problem. Hyperloop came into global prominence after it was proposed by Musk in 2013. It is viewed as a next-generation transportation system — a "fifth mode" of transport (after planes, trains, cars and boats). It uses magnetically-levitated pods and sealed partial vacuum transit tubes to move people and freight at supersonic speeds estimated to reach over 700 miles per hour (1,127 kilometers per hour). In 2016, Musk co-founded Neuralink, a neurotechnology startup that is reportedly trying to create brain-computer interfaces by integrating the human brain with artificial intelligence (AI). The project is currently at an early stage of development. Author: Srinivas Mazumdaru