Latest moves Due to the coronavirus pandemic, Germany's transfer window was open for one day on July 1. It will reopen between July 15 and October 5. Here are the latest deals from the Bundesliga. July 10 Done deal: Salomon Kalou — Hertha Berlin to Botafogo Salomon Kalou is departing the German capital after six seasons. The 34-year-old forward, who made just seven appearances for Hertha last season, has signed an 18-month contract with Brazilian side Botafogo. Kalou scored 54 goals and registered 13 assists in 173 games for Hertha. Done deal: Nathan de Medina — Mouscron to Arminia Bielefeld Newly promoted Bielefeld have completed their third signing in less that two weeks as they prepare for their Bundesliga return. They have announced that Nathan de Medina, a 22-year-old Belgian defender, has signed with the club from Belgian side Royal Excel Mouscron. July 9 Rumor: Hannes Wolf — RB Leipzig to Borussia Mönchengladbach Could Marco Rose reunite with one of his former young talents? According to Kicker, the Foals are in talks with RB Leipzig over a potential one-year loan of 21-year-old Hannes Wolf. The Austrian midfielder, who moved from RB Salzburg to Leipzig one year ago, made just five appearances for the Red Bulls this past season. Done deal: Niko Giesselmann — Union Berlin to Fortuna Düsseldorf Niko Giesselmann has received another chance in the Bundesliga after being relegated with Fortuna Düsseldorf. The 28-year-old defender has signed a contract with Union Berlin that is valid for both the top-flight and the second division. Done deal: Christian Gebauer — Altach to Arminia Bielefeld Newly promoted Arminia Bielefeld have already made their second signing of the transfer season. They have announced that 26-year-old Austrian midfielder Christian Gebauer has moved to the club from Austrian side Altach on a free transfer and has signed a three-year contract until 2023. July 8 Done deal: Benjamin Henrichs — Monaco to RB Leipzig Benjamin Henrichs is returning to the Bundesliga after two seasons in Monaco. The German defender will spend next season with RB Leipzig on loan from Monaco, with Leipzig possessing a buy option in the agreement. Henrichs, who was part of the Germany team that won the Confederations Cup in 2017, made only 13 appearances for Monaco last season while dealing with back trouble. Done deal: Hwang Hee-chan — RB Salzburg to RB Leipzig Another expected deal is official. Hwang Hee-chan has joined RB Leipzig from RB Salzburg. Hwang has signed a five-year deal for around nine million euros, potentially rising to €14 million depending on bonuses. The South Korean attacker will wear Timo Werner's former number 11 shirt. Hwang also becomes the 18th player to have made the move from RB Salzburg to RB Leipzig. July 7 Done deal: Sebastian Rudy, Mark Uth — Hoffenheim/Cologne to Schalke Schalke's sport's chairman Jochen Schneider confirmed to Sport1 that Schalke have both Sebastian Rudy and Mark Uth in their plans for the new season. The pair have returned from loan spells at Hoffenheim and Cologne respectively. Done deal: Sebastian Griesbeck — Heidenheim to Union Berlin The veteran midfielder has signed on with Union Berlin after helping Heidenheim attain third place in the second division, their highest ever finish in club history. July 6 Rumor: Thiago Alcantara — Bayern Munich to Liverpool Liverpool are emerging as strong favorites to sign Bayern Munich midfielder Thiago Alcantara, who seems set to leave the German champions this year. The Premier League side are reported to have tabled a bid of €30 millio with some outlets already reporting that the Spaniard has agreed personal terms with the English champions. When Liverpool coach Jürgen Klopp was asked about the speculation, he replied: "Would you be surprise if I don't give an answer on that? Thiago is a good player, I like a lot of other players out there, but that's all I have to say." Rumor: Benjamin Henrichs — Monaco to RB Leipzig German defender Benjamin Henrichs is edging closer to a loan move to Julian Nagelsmann's RB Leipzig. The 23-year-old departed Bayer Leverkusen for Monaco last year, but Leipzig are keen to bring him home. July 5 Rumor: Kai Havertz — Bayer Leverkusen to Chelsea A transfer saga is brewing. Following Bayern Chairperson Karl-Heinz Rummenigge's comments (see July 4), the English press stoked the fires of the rumors linking Havertz’s to Chelsea. However, former Leverkusen head coach Rainer Calmund thinks differently: "From those around him, it’s clear that Spain is his dream destination." Read more: What next for Kai Havertz? Before the coronavirus pandemic, Kai Havertz was expected to fetch north of €100 million ($109 million). Real Madrid, Barcelona, Liverpool, Juventus and Bayern Munich had all expressed interest. Now? Bayern have taken themselves out of the running this year, and Leverkusen have maintained that they will not accept any "coronavirus discount" for their young star. It seems to be all but certain that the 23-year-old Kosovan will leave Bremen at the end of the season. The only question is where he'll go. Liverpool, Leipzig and Dortmund are all seen as potential destinations. Werder's sporting director, Frank Baumann, could really use the cash Rashica should bring on the transfer market, especially if the club go down. He still has two years left on his contract in Dortmund, but there are no shortage of rumors. Sancho is probably England's most gifted player at the moment, so it's no wonder that some of the Premier League's top clubs would love to bring the 20-year-old home. Manchester United and Chelsea are thought to have the inside track. Playing in the Champions League is a priority for the youngster. The man who scored the goal that won Germany the 2014 World Cup will be out of contract in the summer, meaning Götze can leave BVB on a Bosman. During his short time at Hertha Berlin, Jürgen Klinsmann had expressed interest. There are also said to be several clubs in Italy, Spain and France who would like to sign the 27-year-old. AC Milan or Roma could be good bets to make it happen. Another World Cup winner is also on his way out at Dortmund. He's been on loan at Spartak Moscow but the Russians chose not to trigger a purchase option that would have set them back €7 million. If no offer comes from the Bundesliga, Schürrle can be expected to peddle his services to the highest bidder. Turkey or China seem like plausible landing points. The 25-year-old may not have played a single match in the Bundesliga, but the left back is on the wish list of several German clubs. Gosens, whose performances at Serie A outfit Atalanta have put him on Germany coach Joachim Löw's radar, is reportedly being courted by Borussia Dortmund, Eintracht Frankfurt and Schalke. His market value is estimated at €20 million. With his contract set to expire in 2021, RB Leipzig will need to move this summer if they are going to get a decent payoff for the 21-year-old . Bayern Munich are said to be interested, but the fixed transfer fee in his contract is €60 million. Leipzig are keen to extend his contract, but since it only runs for another year, his agent has been playing for time. According to Nice sporting director, Julien Fournier, the French U21 international is definitely on his way to the Bundesliga this summer. Mönchengladbach, Leverkusen, Hoffenheim and RB Leipzig are all said to be after Sarr, who is regarded as one of the biggest young defensive talents in Europe. Only a team that qualified for the Champions League will have any chance of landing the 21-year-old. Author: Andreas Sten-Ziemons Rumor: Waldemar Anton — Hannover 96 to Stuttgart Waldemar Anton wants to join Stuttgart and Stuttgart want to sign the former Germany Under-21. The clubs have reportedly already reached an agreement on a deal worth €5 million plus bonuses, but Hannover president Martin Kind is yet to give the green light. July 4 Rumor: Kai Havertz — Bayer Leverkusen to Bayern Munich Talking to Sport1, Bayern Chairperson Karl-Heinz Rummenigge outlined that a “Havertz transfer will not be financially possible for us this year.” The 64-year-old went on to say that his "wish for Rudi Völler [Bayer 04's sporting director] is that he stays one more year in Leverkusen." Rumor: Thiago — Bayern Munich to Liverpool Thiago reportedly has one foot out of Bayern's door with Rummenigge admitting that "it looks like he [Thiago] wants to do something new". Premier League champions Liverpool are reportedly the front-runners for the 29-year-old, who has made 231 appearances for Bayern since joining from Barcelona in 2013. Rumor: Angelino — Manchester City to Leipzig Having already extended Angelino's loan deal by two months; RB Leipzig are intent on securing the Spaniard’s services beyond the end of the season. With a permanent signing off the table, reports in Germany suggest the clubs are in "advanced talks". July 3 Done deal: Leroy Sane — Manchester City to Bayern Munich After a year-long transfer saga, Leroy Sane has finally completed his move from Manchester City to Bayern Munich. The German international has signed a five-year contract until 2025, with reports suggesting his transfer will cost the Bavarians approximately €50 million. Rumor: Jude Bellingham — Birmingham City to Borussia Dortmund Dortmund appear on the verge of signing another English teenager. According to Bild, the club has reached a five-year agreement with Bellingham, with Birmingham City receiving a €23 million transfer fee. the 17-year-old played 38 games for Birmingham last season, 35 of which came in the English second-tier Championship. Done deal: Christian Gentner — Union Berlin Union Berlin have announced that veteran midfielder Christian Gentner has signed a contract extension with the club, but have not outlined how long the new deal will last. "The challenge of keeping Union in the Bundesliga is of enormous motivation for me," said the former Stuttgart man. July 2 Done deal: Achraf Hakimi — Real Madrid to Inter Milan Real Madrid has confirmed that defender Achraf Hakimi, who has spent the previous two seasons on loan with Dortmund, is headed to Italy. Media reports suggest the 21-year-old defender has completed a move to Inter Milan for a fee of €40 million. July 1 Done deal: Tanguy Nianzou Kouassi — PSG to Bayern Munich A day after completing their first transfer of the offseason, Bayern Munich have announced a second. They completed the free transfer of French defender Tanguy Nianzou Kouassi from Paris Saint-Germain, with the 18-year-old inking a four-year contract until 2024. He is the fourth French international Bayern have recruited over the past two seasons. June 30 Done deal: Alexander Nübel — Schalke to Bayern Munich After announcing the transfer back in Janaury, the final formalities of Alexander Nübel's deal to join Bayern Munich from Schalke have been completed. The 23-year-old keeper, who kept 15 clean sheets in 53 appearances for the Royal Blues, has set himself the target of "constantly developing” in Bavaria. Done deal: Jacob Barrett Laursen — Odense to Arminia Bielefeld Two days after lifting the Bundesliga 2 title, newly promoted Arminia Bielefeld completed their first signing of the new season. They announced that Jacob Barrett Laursen, a 25-year-old Danish defender, has moved to Bielefeld from Odense on a free transfer, inking a three-year contract until 2023. June 29 Done deal: Jeremy Toljan — Dortmund to Sassuolo Borussia Dortmund have announced that right-back Jeremy Toljan will extend his loan at Serie A side Sassuolo by a further year. According to reports, there's a clause that will see the deal made permanent should Toljan make a certain amount of appearances. Done deal: Rafal Gikiewicz, Daniel Caligiuri, Tobias Strobl — to Augsburg Augsburg have moved swiftly to complete a trio of free transfer coups. Union Berlin's Rafal Gikiewicz should solve the goalkeeping problem, while Daniel Caligiuri and Tobias Strobl, who have joined from Schalke and Borussia Mönchengladbach respectively, bring the experience of a combined 450 Bundesliga appearances with them. Rumor: Hwang Hee-chan — Red Bull Salzburg to RB Leipzig According to reports from South Korean broadcaster KBS, forward Hwang Hee-chan is on the verge of becoming the latest Red Bull Salzburg player to make the switch to RB Leipzig. The clubs have reportedly already agreed on a transfer.