All updates in Universal Coordinated Time (UTC/GMT) 08:06 Both Austria and England have implemented stricter mask-wearing requirements this week. Following a significant increase in cases, Austria, people in supermarkets, banks, post offices, hospitals and nursing homes will have to wear masks. Masks were previously only required in public transport and phamacies. In England, although masks were already mandatory in public transport, they will now also be required in shops. The requirement will only appy to England, however, and not the rest of the United Kingdom. The UK has recorded over 298,000 cases and more than 45,5000 deaths. 07:49 Payments of the unprecedented coronavirus stimulus approved by leaders of the European Union will start in the second half of next year, the bloc's economy commissioner, Paolo Gentiloni, was quoted as saying. Countries may be able to use a tenth of the €1.8 trillion ($2 trillion) coronavirus aid and budget package in anticipation of the plan's approval, said Gentiloni in an interview with Italian newspaper La Repubblica. He suggested the bloc would have to approve new resources, such as the digital tax and the CO2 tax, to repay the common debt between 2026 and 2056. "Otherwise, individual countries will find themselves having to repay the money because Europe has not been able to repay the common debt," Gentiloni said. 07:20 India has overtaken France's death toll, with a total of 30,601 fatalities. Over the past 24 hours, India recorded 740 new deaths from the virus and 49,310 new infections, official data showed. An antibody study showed this week that almost a quarter of people in the capital New Delhi have had the virus — almost 40 times the official number. The death toll is the sixth-highest in the world, behind the US, Brazil, Britain, Mexico and Italy. It also has the third-highest caseload with almost 1.3 million infections. Read more: India reports record coronavirus case increase 07:00 Vietnam, one of Asia's biggest consumers of wildlife products, has suspended all imports of wild animal species "dead or alive" and vowed to "eliminate" illegal markets across the country. The directive, signed by the leader of the communist country, follows the scandal over links between the unregulated sale of wildlife and the origins of the coronavirus in neighboring China. "The prime minister orders the suspension of imports of wildlife — dead or alive — their eggs... parts or derivatives," said the order released Thursday on the government website. "All citizens, especially officials... must not participate in illegal poaching, buying, selling, transporting... of illegal wildlife." The country will also "resolutely eliminate market and trading sites which trade wildlife illegally", the edict said — warning of a crackdown on the poaching, trafficking, storing and advertising of animals, birds and reptiles. Among the most frequently smuggled animal goods are tiger parts, rhino horn and pangolins used in traditional medicine. Vietnam has reported just over 400 cases and no deaths. 06:18 Following the outbreak at the Tönnies slaughterhouse in Germany, which saw over 2,000 employees infected, researchers have found that the virus likely spread to several people within a radius of more than eight meters from a single infected person. Researchers found that the virus had been caught by multiple employees from a so-called superspreader — a cattle butcher — in May. The findings came from a joint study by the Helmholtz Center for Infection Research (HZI), the University Clinic Hamburg-Eppendorf and the Leibniz Institute for Experimental Virology (HPI). "A super spreader process has been found for the outbreak at Tönnies," said Adam Grundhoff, a co-author of the study. The primary transmission took place inside the abattoir, where the circulated air was cooled to 10 degrees Celsius [50 degrees Fahrenheit], said Grundhoff. Researchers pointed to a low supply of fresh air combined with strenuous physical work. "Under these conditions, a distance of 1.5 to three meters alone is obviously not sufficient to prevent transmission," he added. Tönnies later installed a new air filter system to prevent the virus from spreading through the air. Despite concerns that the close living quarters of Tönnies mostly-migrant workforce may have played a role in the spread, the researchers said they saw no link. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3fdY4 03:35 Germany has registered 815 more cases of coronavirus in the past 24 hours, according to the Robert Koch Institute (RKI), bringing total infections in the country to 204,183. With 10 additional deaths, the total number of fatalities in Germany rose to 9,111. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3fp0s 01:55 A study in Brazil has found hydroxychloroquine to be an ineffective drug to treat COVID-19. Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) conducted across 55 hospitals in Brazil found that the anti-malaria drug is not effective against the virus. The study also found that the drug has potentially damaging side effects, such as the increased risk for heart and liver problems. "Among patients hospitalized with mild-to-moderate COVID-19, the use of hydroxychloroquine, alone or with azithromycin, did not improve clinical status at 15 days as compared with standard care," said the study, published in the New England Journal of Medicine. Brazil’s President Jair Bolsonaro, who tested positive for coronavirus earlier this month, has praised hydroxychloroquine. He has repeatedly pushed for its widespread use and is reportedly even taking it himself. The authors of the study also acknowledged its limitations, adding that "the trial cannot definitively rule out either a substantial benefit of the trial drugs or substantial harm." Brazil reported 59,961 new cases over the past 24 hours, bringing its total confirmed cases to nearly 2.3 million. It also reported 1,311 new deaths, taking the country’s death toll past 84,000. 01:24 Mexico reported a record number of new coronavirus infections in the past 24 hours. The Health Ministry confirmed 8,438 new cases and 718 deaths, taking the total in the country to 370,712 infections and 41,908 fatalities. The government has said the actual number of cases is likely much higher than the confirmed cases. A survey showed that less than 8% of Mexican firms received aid from the government as the economic recession hit during the pandemic. While several companies said they did not know they could get help from the state, others polled said they applied for aid and did not receive any. Mexico’s economy is forecast to shrink by up to 10% or more this year. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3fdOz 01:02 Australia’s most populous state, New South Wales, has reintroduced restrictions as fresh clusters of the coronavirus emerged in Sydney. Group bookings in restaurants, cafes and clubs will be capped at 10, while venues can allow up to 300 people. Only 100 people can attend funerals and places of worship, whereas weddings and corporate events will be limited to 150 people with strict social distancing rules in place. Australia has so far reported just over 13,000 cases and 133 deaths. It has, however, seen a flare-up of infections in recent weeks, particularly in Melbourne. 00:10 US President Donald Trump canceled the Republican convention in Florida, where he was due to be formally announced as the party’s presidential nominee, citing a spike in coronavirus cases in the state. Trump said it wasn’t the right time to do a "big, crowded convention." "The timing for this event is not right, it’s just not right with what’s happened recently," he said. Trump's announcement came hours after the number of confirmed cases in the United States rose past 4 million. 00:00 Catch up on Thursday’s coronavirus news here. In reporting on the coronavirus pandemic, unless otherwise specified, DW uses figures provided by the Johns Hopkins University (JHU) Coronavirus Resource Center in the United States. JHU updates figures in real-time, collating data from world health organizations, state and national governments, and other public official sources, all of whom have their own systems for compiling information. Germany's national statistics are compiled by its public health agency, the Robert Koch Institute (RKI). These figures depend on data transmission from state and local levels and are updated around once a day, which can lead to deviation from JHU. adi/stb (AP, AFP, Reuters, dpa) 