Arsonists set fire to set fire to a wooden statue representing United States first lady Melania Trump in her birth country of Slovenia, local media reported on Wednesday. The incident took place on July 4, when Independence Day in the US is celebrated. Police have no leads on the "unknown vandals" but are continuing to investigate, according to media reports. The statue was commissioned by US artist Brad Downey and created by Slovenian local folk artist Ales Zupevc, who carved the sculpture with a chainsaw from the trunk of a tree. The figure was roughly-cut and had no facial features. It was painted with a pale blue wraparound coat that resembled the one Melania Trump wore at the inauguration of her husband US President Donald Trump. Read more: Slovenian tourism stirs 'Melania' hype Police have launched an investigation into the burning of the statue Downey said he had the life-sized blackened, disfigured sculpture removed as soon as police informed him of the incident on July 5. "I want to know why they did it," said Downey. It was not clear whether burning the statue was an artistic act, said Slovenian national broadcaster RTV. Controversial statue The statue has been described on social media as a scarecrow while other critics saw the work as a representation of the Virgin Mary. Downey said he wanted the statue to stimulate debate around the political situation in the US, particularly on immigration. In recent weeks, anti-racism demonstrators have pulled down or defaced a number of statues of prominent figures deemed to have colonial or racist connections, following the death of George Floyd at the hands of Minneapolis police. In response, Trump pledged to take a hard line on anyone destroying or vandalizing US historical monuments. In January, a large wooden statue resembling Donald Trump, designed by a local artist last year, was burnt in Slovenia's city of Moravce, east of the capital Ljubljana. kmm/rs (dpa, Reuters) After paying a surprise to a migrant shelter in Texas, US First Lady Melania Trump was seen heading back to Washington sporting a jacket with the words "I REALLY DON'T CARE" printed on the back. Critics saw her choice of coat as particularly insensitive, given it came at a time when public outrage over her husband's hardline family separation policy was so fervid. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and his family were roundly mocked during their visit to India in February, as they appeared in traditional Indian garb on at least five separate occasions. Indian political commentators accused Trudeau of trying way too hard to impress his hosts, while others described the gesture as "fake and annoying." David Cameron's first visit to China as British prime minister coincided with the lead up to Armistice Day, a day of remembrance in the UK for those who have fought and died in war. Those paying their respects sport a red poppy. No one seemed to have told Cameron that in China, the poppy symbolizes the country's devastating 19th century Opium Wars, fought against none other than Britain. South Africa's ex-President Jacob Zuma's made leather jackets a trait of his political leadership. However, he took it a step too far in 2010 by releasing his own range of jackets. With their luminous yellow and green stripes, they were mostly considered garish. What's more, the jackets ranged from 1,620 rand ($177, €151) to 1,944 rand — a price far beyond the reach of most ANC voters. When Queen Elizabeth II opened British parliament last year, it was hard not to notice that her hat bore a close resemblance to the EU flag. With Brexit dominating the British political debate, some saw the outfit as a subliminal political statement by Her Majesty. Even the EU Parliament's Brexit negotiator, Guy Verhofstadt, tweeted that the Queen must still be "inspired" by the EU. What is it about Melania Trump and Texas? FLOTUS looked like she'd just walked off the catwalk as she headed to Texas to oversee Hurricane Harvey relief efforts. Many saw her decision to sport six-inch stiletto heels as being oblivious to the devastation going on in the south of the country. By the time she landed in Houston, however, Melania ditched the heels for some more appropriate footwear.  