The six-day annual pilgrimage started in the Muslim holy city of Mecca on Tuesday under strict coronavirus restrictions that have prevented millions of people from attending the holy ritual. Last year, around 2.5 million Muslims from all over the world participated in the Hajj. The kingdom has allowed only around 1,000 people to perform the Hajj this year due to the coronavirus pandemic, which has infected at least 16.4 million people globally and killed more than 654,000. Saudi Arabia has so far reported more than 270,000 COVID-19 cases and over 2,700 deaths. Read more: Saudi Arabia: Hajj cancellation spells frustration and empty pockets Authorities in Riyadh imposed a strict lockdown when the first coronavirus cases emerged in March. They only started to ease restrictions in May, albeit with a high degree of caution. Many Pakistanis who had applied for the pilgrimage were hopeful that the pandemic would subside before the Hajj. The crisis, however, is far from over, and these people feel dejected by the situation. At the same time, hundreds of people working in the Hajj traveling business have incurred huge financial losses.   Not this year! Ale Imran Ahmed Rizvi, a 35-year-old resident of Karachi, was ecstatic when his name appeared in a Hajj ballot in January. He had always wanted to visit the holy sites in Saudi Arabia. "I had started making arrangements for my trip. I received hundreds of congratulatory messages," Rizvi told DW. "Most people like to perform the Hajj when they are old. But I wanted to do it as early as possible, so my wife and I decided that this should be our year," Rizvi added. Read more: Pakistan traders switch to sell sacrificial animals online Pakistan recorded its first coronavirus case in late February. Since then, the South Asian country has confirmed over 275,000 COVID-19 cases and over 5,800 deaths. The virus brought the whole world to a standstill. "Our preparations were almost complete when we heard about coronavirus. I thought it would remain confined to China, where it had originated, but in March it started spreading rapidly in Pakistan. Then we learnt that Saudi Arabia had imposed a curfew in Mecca and other cities, and last month Saudi authorities announced that this year the Hajj would be limited to only a few hundred people," he added. Unlike Saudi Arabia, Pakistan has not imposed restricitons on mass religious gatherings during the pandemic Although Rizvi did not lose any money as a result of the Hajj cancellation, he fears that he won't be able to perform the pilgrimage anytime soon. Saudi Arabia only allows a certain number of people from every country to perform the Hajj, and usually the applications outnumber the pilgrim quota. Rizvi, however, has not lost hope. He said he would apply again next year and urged the Pakistani government to request Saudi authorities to increase the Hajj quota for Pakistanis. Read more: Coronavirus: Is low testing behind Pakistan's falling daily new cases? Hajj quota and financial losses Syed Tanvir ul Kazim, a Hajj tour operator in Pakistan Punjab province, says the Saudi government's decision to ban foreign pilgrims has ruined his business and rendered thousands of people jobless. "There are around 700 to 800 companies in the province dealing with the Hajj tour. Each of them takes around 80 to 100 people to Mecca every year and makes at least 20,000-30,000 rupees per person (€102-€153, $119-$180). It is not possible this year," Kazim told DW. Kazim also hopes that Saudi authorities will increase the Pakistan Hajj quota. "Otherwise we will face huge problems next year." Pakistan authorities say they fear the Hajj applications for 2021 will increase exponentially. "We are sorry that our people won't be able to perform the Hajj this year, but the virus situation is beyond our control. We'll request Riyadh to increase our Hajj quota so that more Pakistanis can make the spiritual journey next year," Muhammad Iqbal Khan, a ruling party member of parliament, told DW. Read more: How the COVID-19 crisis is affecting Pakistan's economy The hajj is an annual Islamic pilgrimage to Mecca in Saudi Arabia, the most holy city for Muslims. All Muslims are expected to perform this religious duty at least once in their lifetime if they are physically and financially able. It is one of the five pillars of Islam, or core ritual practices, and considered to be the largest gathering of people in the world, with millions attending every year. As many as three million pilgrims perform a series of rituals over the course of five or six days. First, they stop to pray at the Grand Mosque, home to a cubic building draped in black silk called the Kaaba, Islam’s most important shrine. Pilgrims travel to the village of Mina to again pray and read from the Quran. Next they spend a day at Mount Arafat, where the Prophet Mohammed gave his final sermon, to ask for forgiveness. On their return journey to Mecca, the pilgrims stop on a plain called Muzdalifah to collect stones, which they will throw at three pillars in Mina to symbolically stone the devil. Finally, upon returning to Mecca, the pilgrims will circle the Kaaba in the Grand Mosque seven times, bringing their hajj to a close. They then shave their heads and perform an animal sacrifice before celebrating the Muslim holiday Eid al-Adha, or the Festival of Sacrifice. Since 1987, more than 5,800 people have died in building collapses, stampedes, trampling and fires. In 2015, a stampede resulted in around 2,400 deaths, making it the worst catastrophe in the history of hajj. The pilgrimage is also a hotbed of infectious disease, as pilgrims from every corner of the planet often trek around in the heat barefoot and share tight sleeping quarters. While the hajj is the oldest and most sacred ritual of Islam, it has also been brought into the 21st Century. The Saudi government is using the latest in crowd-control techniques to prevent trampling and architectural collapses. On YouTube, they telecast live hajj and now, Google, iTunes and other sites have come out with hajj apps to help pilgrims better understand and perform the hajj rituals.