The international film scene is undergoing tremendous change; nothing is the same as before. Hollywood is postponing its blockbuster launches week by week, films produced for the big screen land on streaming platforms instead. Many movie theaters and chains face an uncertain future. Film distributors, a key link between the studios and the audience, have no idea when they can offer their films. The coronavirus pandemic has had a huge impact on the global film industry and it is becoming increasingly clear that the transformations the crisis has already triggered are very likely to establish long-term trends. Planned for movie theaters, streamed on phones The film Greyhound is a particularly striking example. Originally, the war film based on true events about a conflict between US ships and German submarines during World War II was to be released in movie theaters earlier this year. As movie theaters were closed due to the coronavirus pandemic, Sony Pictures sold Apple the film starring Tom Hanks and featuring many digital tricks. The deal amounted to $70 million (€61.8 million), according to the Deadline Hollywood news site. Greyhound is launched on July 10 exclusively on Apple TV+, the US tech giant's streaming platform. A lavishly produced movie for the big screen is now first made available on screens at home, which in itself is remarkable. But studios, producers and distributors don't really have a choice, finished films need to move on to the audience, it's as simple as that. Otherwise, they would face even bigger losses. Tom Hanks is Captain Ernest Krause, commander of the USS Keeling What about the real blockbusters? The Greyhound deal is unlikely to have caused much of a headache, as the film directed by Aaron Schneider is not one of the major 2020 blockbusters millions of people worldwide are waiting for — unlike the new James Bond movie No Time to Die, the Disney film Mulan and Christopher Nolan's Tenet. These films would be expected to make millions of dollars at the box offices worldwide. A financial disaster looms if they, too, can't play to packed movie theaters. Read more: James Bond: Born in Germany? "When Hollywood coughs, the global cinema industry has a bad flu," German news magazine Der Spiegel wrote this week: When blockbusters are postponed over and over again, that has an impact on movie theater owners, film distributors and the film industry's entire infrastructure worldwide. Disney, for instance, had an eye on the huge Chinese market for Mulan. But after reopening, some movie theaters in China are closing down again as some areas are facing a second wave of COVID-19 infections. The situation is no different in the United States, which faces a severe rise in the number of infections. Disney had high hopes for 'Mulan' Winners and losers in the crisis Some movie theater operators feel that reopening their venues is not worth the trouble under Germany's strict security measures that stipulate only a third of the seats in the theater can be sold. Movie theaters that have opened are showing documentaries, revivals of older films and sophisticated art house productions. Drive-in cinemas have been experiencing a boom, but these are niche markets that can't hide the fact that a multi-million-dollar industry is in a tailspin. Netflix, Amazon, Disney, Apple — the big streaming providers benefit from the situation. But even for them, supply is backed up due to long interruptions in new productions. Decades-old system in question Currently, mechanisms that have worked for decades are being questioned — in the so-called movie release window a film would premiere on the big screen, securing an income for producers, distributors and cinema owners. Next, the film would be available on DVDs or Blu-ray, and more recently on streaming platforms, too. The third source of income, again with a time lag due to the sale of rights and licenses, was the free TV market. The system is currently undergoing dramatic changes, however. The industry needs to ask itself whether the movie release window may disappear entirely, or only be applicable as an exception, and whether the system can even get back on track if and once the coronavirus crisis is contained. Another highly awaited 2020 release: Chritopher Nolan's 'Tenet' Another given is also being challenged — until now, the major US studios (Disney, Sony, Warner, Universal or Paramount) have stood for global big business, with small independent producers and the entire art house sector on the other side. This system seems to be imploding. Competitors on the streaming market Successful streaming providers like Netflix are serious competitors to the established major studios, whose revenues threaten to collapse. Part of the confusion and constantly changing situation is that Disney (and soon Warner, too) now have their own streaming platforms. And what about the independent scene in this cut-throat competition? If streaming platforms show new movies from the start, or if they are marketed as DVDs or offered as VoD (Video on Demand), several questions arise: Who earns the money? Will expensive productions still be worthwhile? Which movie theaters will survive? Will states and local authorities (at least in Europe) commit themselves financially to the film industry? Will cinema then be a subsidized culture like opera, theater or concerts? At present, no one can answer these questions. Everything depends on the development of a vaccine or effective drugs. No one can predict the development of the coronavirus pandemic. The movie industry is not yet out of the woods. Tom Hanks has become one of American cinema's biggest stars. He's managed to stay scandal-free and has enjoyed quite a picture book career since the 1980s. One of his most unforgettable roles was as the chocolate-loving, long-distance running Forrest Gump in the 1994 film. Tom Hanks' breakthrough came under water. In 1984, his friend, director Ron Howard, cast him in the romantic comedy, "Splash." Hanks played an unlucky guy who falls in love with a mermaid. While Daryl Hannah stole the show as the mermaid, Hanks proved he could swim with the big shots. Four years after "Splash" came the next major step in the California native's career. In "Big," Hanks played a boy who finds himself in the body of a grown man. The film was a box office success and showed Hollywood that Hanks was a lucrative name. In 1993, Hanks revealed his softer side in "Sleepless in Seattle," co-starring Meg Ryan. The two played a couple who fall in love over the phone before they ever meet in person. As Sam Baldwin, a widowed architect looking for love, Hanks showed the world he could master romantic roles as well. Hanks' next film was a whopper. In "Philadelphia" (1993), he moved viewers to tears as an attorney battling AIDS. It was he first Hollywood film to grapple with such a challenging topic - and brought Hanks an Oscar for Best Actor. When Hanks raked in two Oscars the following year for "Forrest Gump," Hollywood's top producers and directors were fighting over him and the actor could choose his roles carefully. In 1998, he teamed up with friend and director Steven Spielberg and played the lead in the World War II drama "Saving Private Ryan." Perhaps one of the biggest challenges for an actor is to carry an entire film by themselves. Tom Hanks masters that in "Cast Away," in which he plays a man who survives an airplane crash and lands on an uninhabited island in the South Pacific. The full-length film is nearly a monologue. Steven Spielberg also directed "Catch Me If You Can," where Tom Hanks depicts an FBI investigator who's after a con man played by Leonardo DiCaprio. The pair were the perfect fit: DiCaprio as the charismatic check frauder and Hanks as the honest official. Hanks' next project saw him once again stranded in a threatening environment. In "The Terminal," a comedy directed by Steven Spielberg, Hanks plays a man who is trapped at the JFK airport in New York when he's denied entry into the US but cannot return to his own country due to a military coup. After so much success as an actor, Hanks dabbled a bit in producing and voice-overs. But acting remains his first love. One of his best more recent films is "Captain Phillips" (2013), in which he plays a ship captain who is kidnapped by terrorists. In 2014, Tom Hanks joined Steven Spielberg in Germany to play an attorney in the Cold War drama, "Bridge of Spies." The filming took place at the Babelsberg Studios in Berlin - and even Chancellor Angela Merkel stopped by for a visit. The film was released a year later and Hanks is pictured here at its 2015 premiere in Berlin. Another one of Hanks' more recent projects also had a connection to Germany. In German director Tom Tykwer's culture-clash-comedy "A Hologram for the King," Hanks plays a downtrodden salesman who gets stuck in the Middle East. The actor had partnered with Tykwer four years before for the fantasy film "Cloud Atlas." Author: Jochen Kürten / kbm