A man with explosives and weapons seized a long-distance bus and took 10 people hostage in northwestern Ukraine on Tuesday, the country's SBU Security Service said in a Facebook statement. Police had earlier put the number of hostages at 20. It remains unclear how many people were on board the bus when it was seized at 9:25 a.m. local time (0625 UTC), or whether any hostages managed to escape. Read more: Netherlands to take Russia to European court over MH17 downing Authorities blocked off the city center of Lutsk, some 400 kilometers (250 miles) west of Kyiv, and asked locals to remain inside their homes or places of work as officers held negotiations with the armed man. Video footage of heavily armed police surrounding the bus has been published by local media. "The attacker threw a grenade from the bus, which, fortunately, did not detonate," the SBU statement read. Ukrainian media reported that gunshots had been heard at the scene, which was also confirmed by President Volodymyr Zelenskiy. Police say the man is armed and carrying explosives "Gunshots have been heard, the bus is damaged," Zelenskiy said in a statement posted on Facebook. It was not immediately clear whether anyone has been injured. At a press conference later on Tuesday, Zelenskiy told reporters negotiations are underway with the assailant and "professionals" were doing "everything" to ensure the release of the hostages. The prosecutor general's office said the hostage-taker had claimed a separate explosive device was located in a public place in the city of around 200,000 residents which could be detonated remotely. Past criminal record Earlier in the day, the 44-year-old man called authorities himself after taking control of the bus and introduced himself as Maksym Plokhoy — a pseudonym which translates to "bad Maxim" — Ukraine's Deputy Interior Minister Anton Gerashchenko said on Facebook. Authorities have since identified the individual and said that he had previously vented his anger with "Ukraine's system" via social media. Gerashchenko added the man had previously spent around 10 years in prison for a variety of offences, including fraud and illegal handling of weapons. Read more: Ukraine's surrogacy industry leaves parents in limbo This is an updated version of a previous article. jlw,jsi/msh (AP, AFP, dpa) 