The heads of Germany's conservative Christian Democrats (CDU) on Wednesday approved plans to introduce binding quotas for female representation for leading party positions, with party leaders saying that representation targets for election candidate lists are under discussion. Starting next year, at least 30% of CDU government positions and members of parliament in Chancellor Angela Merkel's party are to be filled by women. The quota is to be raised gradually to 40% in 2023 and 50% in 2025. The commission in charge of drafting the party's internal rules agreed to the new quotas in a meeting held overnight, sources familiar with the proceedings told reporters. The proposal must still be approved by party members during the CDU's party conference in December. Read more: German minister calls for female quota in boardrooms, end to 'boys' club' Requirements for candidate lists emerge Sources familiar with the talks told news agency AFP that exceptions to the mandatory quotas can be made "if not enough women run for office to meet it." District chairpersons will be required to report back to the party on the development of the proportion of women and measures to promote women. The commission did not reach a decision requiring the quotas for candidates in state, European, and federal elections. Read more: In German politics, women still have a long way to go The 34-year-old Sanna Marin was elected by her party in December 2019 to serve as Finland's prime minister after Antti Rinne resigned over fallout from a postal strike. Once she is sworn in, set for mid-December, she will become one of the world's youngest head's of states. She previously served as her country's transport minister. Since October 2017, Jacinda Arden has served as the 40th prime minister of New Zealand. She took office at the age of 37. She is also only the second woman to give birth while in office. Arden is regarded as one of the world's most powerful women and was praised internationally for her response to the Christchurch terror attacks in 2019. After Evo Morales resigned as Bolivia's president in November 2019, the 52-year-old Jeanine Anez became the interim leader of the country. Previously a vice president of the Senate, she has said she would like to try to schedule fresh elections as soon as possible. She is politically right-wing. After serving as Belgium's budget minister, Sohpie Wilmes became the country's prime minister — and its first female one — in late October 2019. The 44-year-old has a tough task before her: scraping together a majority from a highly fragmented national parliament. She belongs to the French-speaking liberal-centrist MR party. Slovakia elected Zuzana Caputova as its first female president in March 2019. She took office in June, also becoming the youngest-ever president at age 45. Her political views are marked by her strong environmentalism and her determination to weed out corruption in the central European state. Prior to becoming president, she had not held an elected political office. The 65-year-old was appointed chancellor in 2005 — the country's first female head of government — and is currently serving her fourth term as Germany's leader. The pastor's daughter from communist East Germany and chemistry doctorate was named "Person of the Year 2015" by Time magazine. Her term is scheduled to end in 2021, and she has said she will not pursue the chancellor position again. The 69-yeaer-old Sahle-Work Zewde was elected unanimously by the members of Ethiopia's parliament to serve as the country's 5th president. She is the first woman to fill the role, though the role is largely ceremonial. However, as of 2019, she is Africa's only serving head of state. A career diplomat, she had previously held various high-level positions in the UN. Tsai Ing-Wen is the first woman to serve as president of the Republic of China, more commonly known as Taiwan. Her inauguration in May 2016 led Beijing to freeze official relations with the small island, which the mainland claims can never be independent. Tsai has made it clear she will not "bow to pressure" over the issue of sovereignty. She has announced she will run for reelection in 2020. Norway, too, is governed by a woman. Erna Solberg took office in 2013. The 58-year-old is the wealthy northern country's second female prime minister, after Gro Harlem Brundtland, who held the position in the 80s and 90s. Her tough asylum policies earned her the nickname "Iron Erna." She also heads up Norway's Conservative Party. The 52-year-old, Namibia's fourth prime minister, has been in office since 2015. Kuugongelwa-Amadhila went into exile in Sierra Leone as a young teenager. She pursued higher education in the US, graduating with a degree in economics before returning home in 1994, where she began working in politics. She is the first woman to head Namibia's government and a strong proponent of women's rights. Sheikh Hasina is the 10th and longest serving prime minister in the history of Bangladesh. Before her current term, which began in 2009, she also held the office from 1996-2001. Forbes business magazine listed the 72-year-old on its list of the World's 100 Most Powerful Women in 2016, 2017 and 2018. The 51-year-old held several government positions and represented Croatia as ambassador to the United States before she was elected in 2015 as the country's first woman president, and its youngest. Grabar-Kitarovic's position from 2011 to 2014 as assistant secretary general for public diplomacy at NATO makes her the highest-ranking female ever within NATO's administrative team. Author: Dagmar Breitenbach, Cristina Burack However, sources said that a compromise for a required target is emerging that would allot at least three of the top-ten candidate positions in Germany's proportional representation system to women starting in 2021. The number would rise to four in 2023 and five in 2025. For Germany's federal election, for example, this would mean that each of the 16 state delegations elected to the Bundestag for the CDU would be co-head by at least 3 women. Strong opposition waters down ambitious targets The new regulation was a compromise reached after tough negotiations.The original draft of the rules had pursued more far-reaching goals, which included a mandatory quota of 50% from 2023 for party offices as well as for candidate lists, but parts of the party were strongly opposed to this target. Read more: Percentage of female Bundestag deputies hits a 19-year low The CDU's announcement came the same day that Germany's family minister presented the country's first national strategy for gender equality. The strategy lays out nine goals for achieving equality between men and women in Germany, with the aim of influencing legislation. The CDU has held a plurality of seats in the German Bundestag for decades and has thus far been reluctant to impose gender equality rules, unlike Germany's left-of-center parties. The new regulations, if passed, are likely to have wide-sweeping effects on gender parity in German politics overall. kp/rs (AFP, dpa)  