Felicien Kabuga, once one of the richest men in Rwanda, was detained by French security forces on Saturday morning. He had been pursued by international justice for 25 years over crimes allegedly committed during the country's civil war. According to Rwandan prosecutors, Kabuga used his companies to import machetes and gardening tools knowing they would be used as weapons in the wave of violence that killed some 800,000 Tutsi and moderate Hutus in the East African country. He is believed to have established the notorious Interahamwe militia and provided training and equipment used in the massacres. Read more: 20 years under Rwanda's 'benevolent dictator' Paul Kagame "Felicien Kabuga is known to have been the financier of the Rwandan genocide," French police said in a statement. Kabuga was also behind the creation of Radio Television Mille Collines that broadcast propaganda to incite the violence during the deadly 100-day killing spree. Most wanted man The ethnic Hutu businessman had been living under an assumed name in a flat in Asnieres-Sur-Seine, just north of Paris, apparently with the help of his children. On Saturday, French police said Kabuga "had with impunity stayed in Germany, Belgium, Congo-Kinshasa, Kenya, and Switzerland" since 1994. Read more: Opinion: Rwandan genocide arrest offers solace to survivors In 1997, the UN's International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda indicted Kabuga on charges related to conspiracy to commit genocide, persecution and extermination. He became Rwanda’s most-wanted man and is the subject of a $5 million (€4.6 million) bounty offered by the United States. In 2015, the Rwanda tribunal formally closed and its cases have been given over to Mechanism for International Criminal Tribunals (MICT). Read more: 'If my family's killers apologized to me, I'd forgive them' In the British Netflix series, Kate digs into the turmoil of her past. She wants to put those responsible for the genocide in her home country behind bars, but that puts her in grave danger. It's a dramatic reappraisal of the genocide — and its aftermath to this day, accompanied by Leonard Cohen's dark "You want it darker" as the soundtrack. Paul Rusesabagina ran the Hotel des Mille Collines in Kigali in 1994. During the genocide, he protected more than 1,200 people from certain death. In 2004, the story was turned into the film "Hotel Rwanda." The disturbing drama was not only nominated for three Oscars, but also reminded the general public of the atrocities of the genocide. Romeo Dallaire (photo) was commander of the UN mission in Rwanda before and during the genocide. In his book "Shake Hands with the Devil," he lays blame on the international community for the catastrophe of 1994. The Canadian had said that intervention was vital in order to stop the murder, but his cries for help and those of the Rwandans went unheeded. His book was turned into a film in 2007. The radio was used by the génocidaires, who perpetrated the genocide in Rwanda, as a propaganda tool to spread their hate messages throughout the country. The RTLM broadcaster called the Tutsi and the moderate Hutu "cockroaches." In his play "Hate Radio," the Swiss theater director Milo Rau stages a frighteningly authentic day in the studio of the infamous station. The church is also partly to blame for the genocide in Rwanda. This dramatic, formal sentence from a Tutsi pastor's letter to a church superior collaborating with the génocidaires was chosen by US journalist Phillip Gourevitch as the title of his book. In Rwanda, he collected reports from survivors. Through them he tried to understand the psychological aftermath of the genocide. The film "Shooting Dogs" shows how quickly a supposedly healthy world became hell on earth. In a school in Kigali, hundreds of people seek shelter from the murderous militias waiting outside the gates. They initially believe that the UN blue helmets can protect them, but then the evacuations of Americans and Europeans begin. The Rwandans are left behind — and the killing starts. For 91 days, Immaculée Ilibagiza hid in the bathroom of a pastor's house. Machete-wielding men had been looking for her and the seven other women who had taken refuge in the small room. When they were finally able to leave, she discovered that almost her entire family had been murdered. She believes that it was her faith that saved her and has written about the genocide and its lasting effects. Even 25 years after the genocide, Rwanda remains inextricably linked to the darkest chapter in its history. But many Rwandans also want to look to the future — including rapper Eric1key and the "Rwandan Records" project. Their goal is to show there is more than just a victim mentality by promoting the perspective of self-confident people. They are holding shows in Berlin and later, in Rwanda. Author: Felix Schlagwein (als/ct) 'Strength of determination' Kabuga is now expected to be transferred to the custody of MICT and stand trial. Chief prosecutor Serge Brammertz said that his capture "underlines the strength of our determination." "The arrest of Felicien Kabuga today is a reminder that those responsible for genocide can be brought to account, even 26 years after their crimes," said Brammertz. The 1994 genocide was triggered by the assassination of then-president Juvenal Habyarimana. At the time, Kabuga was part of Habyarimana's inner circle and his daughter was married to one of the president's sons. Two other top suspects linked with the Rwanda genocide - former defense minister Augustin Bizmana and military leader Protais Mpiranya - remain at large. dj/mm (AFP, Reuters, AP) Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.