Rescue teams in the Netherlands on Tuesday recovered the bodies of three surfers. Two other people rescued from the sea the day before died shortly after being pulled from the water. The altogether five deaths occurred at the popular beach resort of Scheveningen, a district of The Hague. Surfers familiar with the conditions at Scheveningen told the Dutch public broadcasting organization NOS that strong winds and adverse currents might have made things difficult for the surfers, some of whom were reportedly very experienced. They said the large amount of foam on the waves may also have played a role. Read more: Senegal: Africa's new surfing hot spot The Banzai Pipeline on the North Shore of Oahu in Hawaii is considered to be the deadliest wave pattern in the world. It is a surf reef break located off Sunset Beach Park in Pupukea on Oahu’s North Shore.It breaks in shallow water by a sharp reef and has claimed seven lives since the 1980's. Despite the well-known danger, Pipeline remains one of the most crowded and intense lineups in the world. Teahupo’o is on a reef off the southwest coast of the island of Tahiti, in the southern Pacific Ocean. Waves break onto a razor-sharp reef just a meters beneath the surface. A "Monster Swell" that hit the south coast of Tahiti, produced some of the most radical rides ever. Mavericks can be found just north of the town of Half Moon Bay south of San Francisco in northern California. The "Mavericks Invitational" is the biggest surf contest in the world. The waves here move so fast that a jet ski has to tow the surfers into the path of the wave. Also, rocky underwater ridges make conditions unpredictable. A surfer rides down a 50-foot wave at Peahi or "Jaws" in Maui, Hawaii. Local surfers named the spot "Jaws" after the film, given the unpredictability of the waves, similar to a shark attack. Waves there can easily exceed 18 meters in height. This is caused by the structure of an underwater ridge. Big-wave surfers test their limits off of Praia do Norte in Nazare, Portugal, where the highest waves ever surfed are located. American Garrett McNamara holds the world record for the tallest wave ever surfed at this spot. The wave was 78 feet (24 meters). Shipstern Bluff, on the south side of Tasmania in Australia, produces massive swells that slam into a granite ledge facing a rocky headland, as seen in this picture. Combined with cold temperatures and plenty of sharks, it is for the experienced surfer only. The waves there are also known for their multi-faceted inner formations, referred to as steps, which give the wave a unique appearance. Big wave surfers flock to Waimea Bay in Oahu, Hawaii for massive and deadly breaks and wave walls that can reach up to 60 feet. The respected Eddie Aikau Big Wave Invitational is held for top surfers on years when the waves top 25 feet (18 meters). The Australian town of Ballina in New South Wales gained global infamy when it became the poster child for a spate of shark attacks off the vast island continent's east coast. Great White Sharks often breach by Seal Island while hunting seals at Hout Bay, near Cape Town, South Africa. Seal Island, a small land mass that houses thousands of seals and is near the Dungeons, is a surf spot with massive deadly waves that break over boulders into the frigid water. The area is considered to be one of the most shark-infested places on the planet. Author: Nadine Berghausen Difficult search A coast guard spokesman told the news outlet that during search operations on Tuesday, a helicopter was occasionally flown close to the water to disperse the foam and increase visibility. Surfers off the beach had come into difficulties on Monday evening. Several managed to reach shore on their own, but seven were brought in by rescuers, of whom two died after their rescue. The search for those still missing was called off overnight after darkness feel, NOS said. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3acrt Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.