Arranged marriages are common in South Asia. For a girl, the likelihood of getting a good husband increases if she has a fair complexion. Many sociologists say it is a result of India's British colonial past and an "inferiority complex." As if the beauty standards were not enough to find a suitable mate, proficiency in English language has also become a new obsession in the state of Punjab. As a result, hundreds of International English Language Testing System (IELTS) coaching centers have opened up in the state. A good score in IELTS increases the chance for a "good marriage." Subscribe to Corona Compact — DW's newsletter tracking coronavirus in Asia How do 'IELTS marriages' work? Simarpreet, a 22-year-old girl, finished her studies two years ago. Since then, she has been commuting 60 kilometers (37.2 miles) — back and forth — to an IELTS language center in Amritsar to improve her English language skills. She needs to get a good score — at least 6 on a scale of 9 — to fulfill her dreams. Karanvir didn't finish college due to a lack of interest in studies. His parents, farmers in Punjab's Tarn Taran district, own some land, but Karanvir isn't interested in agriculture either. All he wants is to leave India for a Western country. Prajakta Potnis' installations come across as ominous, futuristic still lifes. The Mumbai-born artist likes to stage objects in fridges, freezers and washing machines, and some installations like the above escalators could be straight out of an eerie science fiction movie. Her art is meant as a light-hearted warning of despotism and autocracy. Reena Saini Kallat wants to transcend boundaries. Her work examines hybrid identities, fantastic animals, creatures that are half tiger and half goat. The above work, a woman's bare back with stamped names, focuses on the Kashmir conflict, part of a series of works dedicated to the constantly changing boundaries in the territorial skirmish. Bharti Kher is the only artist in the show who was not born in India. She was raised in Britain, where she felt she didn't have a place in the art world – and moved to India when she was 23 years old. She enjoys and feels inspired by meeting people from all walks of life. Above: six plaster casts of prostitutes. Vibha Galhotra takes a hard look at how mankind treats the environment. She resorts to the five elements water, earth, fire, air and aether in her works. In Hindu mythology, the latter is known as "Panchabhuta," the basis of all creative powers – including artistic creativity. Mithu Sen requires interaction with her works so they can truly unfold their intentions: a flashlight to read secret messages on acrylic glass, or, in the case of the above artwork, a visitor must bend and twist to find hidden figures and skulls. She calls that interaction process a performance. Tejal Shah discards norms as she created video installations with sex-crazed unicorn people; her work has, as a result, been censored in India. She plays with gender roles. Provocation is a part of her art. The above photo is from a video about sexuality: genderless figures emerge from a garbage dump, seeking to establish contact. Author: Sertan Sanderson (db) A professional matchmaker approached Simarpreet's and Karanvir's families to fix their marriage. To obtain a student visa for a foreign country, Simarpreet needed to get a good IELTS score and hoped that she can also take her future husband with her. In return, Karanvir's family is willing to pay for the wedding, Simarpreet's education, and the costs for sending the couple out of the country. It was just a verbal agreement. Simarpreet and Karanvir only tied the knot once Karanvir received his visa. In some cases, girls are required to take the IELTS test after the wedding. They could be divorced if they failed to get a good test score and take their husbands out of the country with them. Read more: The rise of the big fat Punjabi wedding Desirable destinations Canada, the UK and the US are favorite destinations for many people in Punjab. But in the past few years, these countries have tightened their visa rules. For instance, spouses aren't always eligible to work on a student visa, especially if the student isn't pursuing a full-time degree. In New Zealand, such visas are only offered if the student is pursuing a "level 7 or 8" qualification on the country's Long Term Skill Shortage List, or a "level 9 or 10" qualification, which is a master's or a doctoral degree. The former includes degrees in engineering and medicine, among others. Most girls traveling from Punjab do not fulfill these criteria. They usually apply for short-term language or vocational courses. Australia has relatively liberal visa policies, making it a new favorite destination for Punjab's youth. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3FRL5 'Reverse dowry' Some people say the practice is a new kind of dowry. In many parts of South Asia, the bride is expected to bring items of value — furniture, jewelry or money — to her husband's household as a precondition for the wedlock. The inability to fulfill dowry conditions could jeopardize the marriage. "There is no authentic data about 'IELTS marriages,' which makes it difficult to analyze," a senior bureaucrat from the state told DW on condition of anonymity. "However, this practice could put an end to a systematic discrimination against women. It is kind of a 'reverse dowry.'" These women, who are also proficient in English, can now force the groom's family to pay for their education and travel expenses in exchange for a life for their son in a foreign country. Read more: Misuse of anti-dowry law 'exposes failure of Indian authorities' Domestic violence After getting married to Gurpreet, Sukhman fell short of the 6-band requirement in IELTS. She was fortunate that her in-laws didn't think it was a good enough reason to end the marriage. Many other girls are not so lucky. Women's rights organizations in the state have expressed concern about this practice, saying that women who are unable to hold up their end of the bargain are often subjected to domestic violence. "I have come across several cases in which the in-laws start harassing the girl if her IELTS score is insufficient to study abroad," Manisha Gulati, chairperson of Punjab's official commission for women, told DW. "Then they start demanding dowry, as the girl hasn't met the main prerequisite for the marriage," she added. "Government's intervention and a change in mindset is crucial to ending this practice." Read more: Wives duped and dumped by 'holiday grooms' [Editor's note: Protagonists' names have been changed to conceal their identity.] Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3BBol