World War II veteran Joseph Hammond looked sprightly as he finished the final leg of his fundraising walk through the Ghanaian capital, Accra, on Monday, completing 2 miles (3.2 km) a day for seven days. As he strode towards to his home in the bustling Accra neighborhood of Osu, Hammond received cheers and claps from well-wishers who had come to celebrate the end of his fundraising event, which was timed to fall on Africa Day on May 25. Read more: COVID-19: Africa's health workers at risk Fundraising for Africa Hammond has so far raised $18,000 (€16,400). This will be used to purchase personal protection equipment (PPE) for front-line workers and veterans in Ghana and other African countries who are part of the Commonwealth. Ghana has more than 6,800 confirmed cases of coronavirus as of Tuesday, May 26. The lively 95-year-old was inspired by another WWII veteran, Tom Moore from Britain, who raised $40 million for UK front-line health workers in a similar way. Joseph Hammond told DW he was fit enough to walk longer than the planned 2 miles a day for seven days "Like what Colonel Moore did in Britain, I also have embarked on this thing to raise more money," he told DW on the last day of his walk. "Also, I thought being a veteran like himself, I am doing it for the whole of Africa." Hammond fought with the British army between 1939-1945 in Myanmar (formerly Burma), where he was a private in the Gold Coast Regiment of the Royal West African Frontier Force. He is the only survivor of his Ghanaian regiment who fought in WWII. He believes the threat of COVID-19 is deadlier than the enemy he fought more than seven decades ago. "We went to physical war in … Burma, you could see the enemy and plan your strategy during the war how to defeat him," he said. "But this is another kind of war. It is an invisible war. You don't see the enemy. The enemy keeps attacking you." Hammond's story and desire to help in the fight against the novel coronavirus received support from several prominent personalities, including Ghanaian musician Okyeame Kwame and the actors Prince David Osei and Van Vicker who accompanied the veteran for part of his walk. British High Commissioner to Ghana Iain Walker also joined the veteran on the last day. "Ghana has a very strong community spirit and that is great to see that initiatives like this that I am certainly keen to support in any way I can," Walker told DW during the walk. Donwilson Odhiambo, a photographer from Nairobi has stumbled upon something very unique during the COVID-19 pandemic: the coronavirus hairstyle. Since then it has become his favourite topic. "This was something deep because it’s something that no one has done in Kenya. No one has done it anywhere else," Donwilson Odhiambo says. Kibera resident Mable Etambo has been spreading awareness about the pandemic through a simple hairstyle: "With the corona hairstyle we would like to tell people to keep distance, to wear masks wherever they go and to wash their hands regularly or use sanitizers to protect themselves." Schools in Kenya have been closed during the outbreak. So Etambo makes sure her daughters understand the meaning behind the hairstyle and the importance of adhering to government measures to combat the pandemic. "I like it because it shows that corona is real so we should take it seriously," says her daughter Martha Apisa. Not only did Mable Etambo design the hairstyle in the shape of of the corona virus, she also use colored thread to represent the colors of the virus itself. "The pink color represents the protein layer, the maroon is the fatty layer and the zigzag is the crown," she explains. She hopes to continue her new-found talent as a hair-stylist even after the pandemic is over. Author: Wacera Ngunjiri Veteran Hammond says his motivation is driven by love for his country and the African continent. "If you love your country you will do it … I don't bother that I am 95 years and to sit down and sleep over this, I will do it and we will succeed," he said. During his seven days of fundraising, Hammond — wearing a mask — chatted with people who joined him along the way about the history of the Ghana, his war-time experiences and what happened when he came home. His last day of walking took Hammond to the Osu cemetery where hundreds of tombs serve as memorial for all of Ghana's fallen war veterans. Some 65,000 Ghanaians were under the command of Britain officers in World War II. Read more: Africa's forgotten World War II veterans As the last remaining WWII veteran in Ghana, Hammond said it was difficult not being able to talk of his memories of the war with someone who shares his experiences. "All that we did during the war, it comes back," he said. "It is printed on my memory. It comes back, crossing river, shooting somebody, somebody dies. All these things the memories flocks back and I see it like a video film before me. It can never stop until I am dead." Although his seven days of walking are over, Hammond is still calling for more donations to reach his funding target of €563,000 For him, nothing will stop him from playing his little part in defeating COVID-19 on behalf of his deceased war comrades. Mounia Lazali, a designer in Algeria, has sewn and donated hundreds of masks – singer Joe Batoury models one of her designs, above. She told DW people "want to assert their culture and their tastes, so I think that the mask will not escape the fashion effect. If that can encourage people to protect themselves more, art will have succeeded in its mission by entering citizens’ everyday lives." Rwanda-based tailor Alexander Nshimiyimana (second from left, above) told DW he has been producing colorful masks like these because of the stock shortages in the country. Nshimiyimana has tried to keep the price of his masks as affordable as possible so that more people can get access to one. His masks sell for around 50 US cents – while those in Rwanda's pharmacies retail for around US $2. Liberia-based The Bombchel Factory is an ethical fashion company which helps its all-female staff to become self-sufficient by offering them training in making garments. It is turning unsold skirts into bright face masks like this one, above. For every purchased mask, another gets donated to someone unable to quarantine at home – because they don’t have anywhere to stay. Kenyan fashion designer David Avido (above), founder of the label 'lookslike avido,' poses with a mask he made, created from leftover cloth. Since the first coronavirus case was confirmed in Kenya in March, 'lookslike avido' has so far created and distributed more than 10,000 masks for free to communities in and around the Kenyan capital Nairobi. Ange Goufack (left) and her sister Edmonde Kennang (right) have been producing these colorful face masks in Cameroon, with added plastic across the eyes. Since April 13, the government there has made it mandatory for people to wear face masks in public to slow the spread of the coronavirus. When the coronavirus crisis started, Tunisian designer Myriam Riza (above, adjusting a mask at the workshop of her Miss Anais label) was contacted by hospitals suffering from mask shortages. She produces the masks and distributes them to hospitals using donated fabric. To offset the cost of continuing to provide free masks to clinics, Riza decided to create masks for individual paying customers. Author: Melanie Hall DW sends out a daily selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.