Germany's Chancellor Merkel held a video-conference with representatives of the country's powerful car industry on Tuesday, including representatives of BMW, Volkswagen, and Daimler, which owns the Mercedes-Benz brand. Several German ministers also took part in the call. The industry hopes for the state's help in boosting sales amid the pandemic. Most notably, carmakers want the government to offer large financial incentives for car buyers. However, the government refused to provide a definite answer following the Tuesday summit, saying that deliberations would continue until early June. The participants would be discussing stimulus measures  aimed at modernization and a push towards "more innovative vehicle technologies," said Angela Merkel's spokesman Steffen Seibert, adding that the "results" of these talks would be discussed next month. Read more:  Coronavirus compounds problems for German carmakers Carmakers need 'a short-term impulse' Ahead of the Tuesday conference,  the heads of German states discussed awarding up to €3,000 ($3,266) to the buyers of diesel and gasoline-powered cars, and up to €4,000 for e-cars, hybrids, and hydrogen-powered vehicles. The idea was spearheaded by the three German states most dependent on the car industry — Lower Saxony (VW), Bavaria (BMW), and Baden-Württemberg (Porsche, Daimler). Bavarian Premier Söder said the the car industry in his state needed "a short-term impulse." "If we are doing it, we should do it quickly," he told reporters on Tuesday.Industry representatives also complained about the delay, claiming that indecision on bonuses would drive the demand even lower. "Nobody will buy a car as long as there is buying incentive hanging in the air and no decision is made," said the head of the metal industry association NidersachsenMetall, Volker Schimdt. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3bIbY No economic sense Separately, Green party politicians slammed the idea and urged the government to pressure the car industry into changing its ways. "What is needed is an intelligent support for electric cars and plug-in hybrids with a significantly bigger range than today," senior Green party lawmaker Oliver Krischer told the DPA news agency ahead of the meeting. The head of the prestigious IfW economic institute meanwhile warned that the "car buying bonuses make no economic sense" and would not help protect the climate. "Those who want to support the German car industry would do better by expanding the possibilities of [tax] write-offs for investments and with a generous support for research and development," said IfW chief Gabriel Felbermayr. Read more:  German companies take coronavirus state aid yet still plan on paying billions in dividends Glass-chinned giants Major carmakers had been facing a crisis of their own long before the coronavirus pandemic reached Germany — owing to an array of factors including the declining demand for new vehicles in much of the world, the US and China trade war, EU officials demanding more environmentally friendly cars, and the gradual transition away from the internal combustion engine. Germany's car industry has lost much of the luster it had in Merkel's earlier years Initially, the infection hit their plants and buyers in their most important global market, China. Then, it prompted a weeks-long standstill in their European factories, while garages and forecourts closed their doors to customers during the lockdown. This was shown in UK new car sales figures for April published on Tuesday — almost all of the just 4,000 new models sold that month (the worst figure since February 1946) were fleet cars purchased by companies; private purchasing was all but wiped out while the UK was under orders to stay at home. Production has been picking up with the easing of lockdown measures across the continent, but demand remains low. The industry provides some 800,000 jobs across Germany. At German premium carmaker Daimler, net profit fell 78% in the first quarter, bleeding the company's cash position down to a meager €617 million ($662 million). Securing liquidity has top priority now, says CFO Harald Wilhelm, as he throws out guidance for the year. Slumping demand, struggling parts supply and a difficult restart of production makes any outlook impossible, he says. Daimler's trucks business has been hit especially hard in the first three months of 2020, with sales slumping 20% compared with the same period last year. The company's luxury brand, Mercedes-Benz, also suffered a decline — down by 15% even though global showrooms and factories had remained open until March. The complete halt of production at Daimler lasted four weeks, with about 80% of its 170,000 employees being out of work and sustaining themselves through Germany's short-time work scheme. Although factories have been opening since Monday (April 20), most staff will remain dependent on the state-funded wage compensation until the end of April. Chinese autoworkers, like those at Honda's Dongfeng plant (pictured), have already resumed work, hoping for sales in the world's largest car market to pick up again. While in February car sales in China collapsed by 80%, there was light at the end of the tunnel in March with declines slowing to 48%. Meanwhile, all of Daimler's production plants in the country are back in operation. The world's largest carmaker by sales, Volkswagen, has reopened its factory in Zwickau, Germany, pressing ahead with the production of its ID.3 electric car. Despite a 5-week work stoppage at the plant, VW says efforts to roll out the pivotal mass-market electric vehicle this summer are still on time. Engine production at VW's Chemnitz plant though is only gradually being scaled up. VW's largest production facility in Wolfsburg, Germany, however will remain shuttered at least until Monday (April 27). So will its plants in Emden and Hanover. Security protocols, including heavy-duty disinfecting and cleaning, will be put in place, says VW. Where social distancing measures aren't possible, workers are obliged to wear face masks. At Renault in France, the coronavirus-induced shutdown has led to a massive drop in revenue, down by 20% on a decline in unit sales of more than a quarter. The slump has been hemorrhaging the company's cash reserves by about a third, but that still leaves €10.3 billion in Renault's coffers. French carmaker PSA, including the Peugeot, Citroen and Opel brands, saw its first-quarter unit sales even more clobbered than those of its national rival. It sold a staggering 627,000 vehicles less than a year before, down 29%. So far, PSA has not given any date for reopening its European plants, citing ongoing talks with labor unions about pandemic security precautions. In Italy, one of the worst-hit EU country in the current pandemic, the complete shutdown of all industries will not be relaxed before May 4. So the country's top carmaker, Fiat Chrysler, will continue to suffer enormous losses, already amounting to 76% fewer cars sold in March. By comparison, Europe-wide auto sales slumped by "only" 55% on average during the month. Author: Andreas Rostek-Buetti dj/msh (Reuters, dpa) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.