Updates in Universal Coordinated Time (UTC/GMT) 05:53 Authorities in Malaysia say they are rounding up undocumented migrants in the capital in a bid to contain the coronavirus outbreak, Reuters reports. Police detained more than 700 migrants, including children and Rohingya refugees from Myanmar, in raids in the capital, Kuala Lumpur, on Friday, according to rights groups. Officials cited by state news agency Bernama said the operation aimed to prevent undocumented migrants from traveling around the country, which has imposed restrictions on movement to curb COVID-19. The raids come amid rising public anger aimed at the migrant community, who some in Malaysia accuse of spreading the virus and adding to the strain on the health system. The Southeast Asian country has around 2 million registered foreign workers, but authorities estimate there are many more who do not have proper documents. The detained migrants will be kept in a single location for monitoring until the travel restrictions were lifted, police told Bernama. 05:18 The head of the Federation of German Industries (BDI) is demanding the government give businesses a planning horizon, warning that an extended coronavirus lockdown could do permanent damage. "Our companies want and need to know in which stages social and economic life should reopen," BDI Dieter Kempf told the Funke Media Group on Saturday. "Shutdowns cost the German economy a double digit amount in the mid billions every week … That kind of hit cannot be sustained for months, and causes a massive loss in prosperity and permanent damage to the economy and society." Kempf said he hoped German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s meeting with state premiers next week results in a clearer path for businesses. He also called for coronavirus testing to be expanded to limit uncertainty surrounding infection and boost economic activity. 04:00 Hawaii's Lt. Gov Josh Green said the US state has successfully reduced the rate of new COVID-19 infections and "flattened the curve," as it reported just one new case on Friday. The state has begun removing restrictions on some businesses, although the authorities have extended the stay-at-home order till May 31. 03:53 Commuters from the Czech Republic who are working in Germany have been protesting against the restrictions applying to those trying to cross the border between the two countries. The restrictive measures are in place to stop the spread of the coronavirus outbreak. Roughly 100 people convened at the border crossing between Folmava and Furth im Wald, in Bavaria, and a petition has also got underway. The demonstrators were venting their anger at having to present lab results showing they have tested negative for the virus before they can return to the Czech Republic. The test needs to be conducted every four weeks, otherwise citizens must stay at home and self-isolate for two weeks. "This government order is discriminatory and harasses cross-border commuters," Jan Pruha, one of the organizers of the protests, told news agency CTK. He said that those commuting within the country, say from Plzen to Prague, are not subject to the same circumstances. More than 37,000 Czechs commute to Germany while 12,000 regularly go in and out of Austria to work. 03:48 The number of registered cases in Germany rose by 945 to 161,703, data from the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) for infectious diseases revealed. This figure is a significant decrease on Thursday's daily infection count of 1,639. The death toll, meanwhile, has risen by 94, bringing the total number of fatalities from COVID-19 in Germany to 6,575. 02:35 China has reported one new case of COVID-19 in its daily update, down from 12 a day earlier, according to data from the country's health authority. The new case was imported, the National Health Commission (NHC) revealed. The NHC announced 20 new asymptomatic cases, down from 25 a day earlier. The total number of confirmed infections in China is 82,875 while the death toll remains at 4,633 after no new fatalities from COVID-19 were registered in the last 24 hours. 02:22 The International Monetary Fund has given the go-ahead to a $643 million (€580 million) loan for Ecuador after the South American country requested emergency funding to help combat the coronavirus outbreak. Ecuador has been among the hardest-hit countries in Latin America, with 24,675 confirmed cases and 883 deaths, plus a further 1,357 deaths that were likely caused by the novel coronavirus. "This financing will allow us to have the necessary liquidity to support the reactivation of the economy, and protect jobs," Ecuador's ministry said via a statement. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3ajvy 01:41 US regulators have allowed emergency use of the first drug that appears to enable some patients infected with the novel coronavirus to recover faster. The Food and Drug Administration gave the green light to Gilead Science's intravenous drug for hospitalized patients with "severe disease," such as those experiencing breathing problems requiring supplemental oxygen or ventilators, issues that COVID-19 patients suffer from. Remdesivir is the first drug shown to help fight the novel virus that has so far been responsible for the deaths of almost a quarter of a million people worldwide. President Donald Trump made the announcement at the White House alongside Gilead CEO Daniel O'Day and Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Commissioner Stephen Hahn. "This was lightning speed in terms of getting something approved," Hahn said, describing the drug as "an important clinical advance." The FDA acted after preliminary results from a government-sponsored study demonstrated that the drug shortened the recovery time by 31%, or about four days on average, for those hospitalized with the coronavirus. Read more: Antiviral drug remdesivir shows promise in trial on monkeys with coronavirus In April, scientists reported that the antiviral drug remdesivir has been effective in treating monkeys infected with COVID-19 00:51 President Donald Trump says he's hoping that the total number of coronavirus deaths in the United States will be below 100,000, even though he acknowledged the figure as a "horrible number." So far, more than 1.1 million infections have been reported in the US, with 64,789 deaths due to the novel coronavirus. After his briefing, Trump, who has remained in the White House since March 28 due to the coronavirus lockdown, flew to Camp David, Maryland, for a weekend away at the presidential retreat. 00:34 Nearly 3,000 crew members of a cruise ship owned by German tourism company TUI have been quarantined on board after one individual tested positive for COVID-19, the travel giant stated. Fifteen of those aboard "Mein Schiff 3" were tested due to having mild flu-like symptoms. One of them ended up testing positive. All 2,899 crew would remain in quarantine on board in the cruise liner's home port of Cuxhaven, on Germany's North Sea coast, until further notice, TUI said in a statement. The vessel had no passengers on board, TUI added. 00:00 Catch up on yesterday's coronavirus news here: Coronavirus latest: India extends world's biggest lockdown In reporting on the coronavirus pandemic, unless otherwise specified, DW uses figures provided by the Johns Hopkins University (JHU) Coronavirus Resource Center in the United States. JHU updates figures in real-time, collating data from world health organizations, state and national governments and other public official sources, all of whom have their own systems for compiling information. Germany's national statistics are compiled by its public health agency, the Robert Koch Institute (RKI). These figures depend on data transmission from state and local levels and are updated around once a day, which can lead to deviation from JHU. jsi/shs (AP, AFP, Reuters, dpa) Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.