Weston McKennie's armband, Marcus Thuram's kneel and both Jadon Sancho and Achraf Hakimi's message on their undershirts were messages of support in the fight against racism. League regulations may stipulate that players are not allowed to make political messages on their kit, but both the letter and spirit of that regulation must be considered. These are not political messages, but rather a show of support for the basic human rights that all people share. Athletes have a platform for positive change Top-tier athletes in particular play not just sports, but a significant role in society. For better or worse, they have visibility — and with it comes the power to use their platform for good. Social media, too, can be used for good by athletes who command big followings, but tangible action in the real world is more powerful than campaigns in the virtual one. Some may criticize the time and place of athlete's speaking up. But is there ever an appointed time and place for justice, for equal rights? Racism, sexism, and all forms of discrimination are an inconvenient truth — as such, there is no convenient time and place to address them. If athletes want to send out a message, then they should choose when the time is right for them. In most cases that is on the field, court or pitch. There is no one "right time" or "right place" for protest to take place. Speaking up in this manner is personal, is important, and is contextually specific. Right now, the context is the tragic and entirely senseless killing of George Floyd in the United States— and how it reflects a backdrop of systemic prejudice in the US and globally. If athletes want to protest and amplify their voice they must be supported in doing so — especially black athletes and those of other minority groups. They should not be told when and where they're allowed to voice their opinions — particularly when we consider the demographics of who wrote these rules. DW's Jonathan Harding Even following the letter of the law and booking a player for removing their jersey, as Sancho was, seems absurd in the current situation. Regulations shouldn't be totally thrown out of the window, but now is the time for more empathy and encouragement rather than strict adherence to the rules. People are understandably outraged and upset at unjustified violence and systemic racism. This is bigger than football; for a sport that claims to be of and for the people, more understanding for the eminently just rationale behind the action would have been welcomed. Suggesting that sportspeople "stay in their lane," or "shut up and dribble" — as LeBron James was once told — is another way of reinforcing the idea that athletes are a commodity whose only value is their sporting ability. Not only is this a denial of their freedom of expression, it ignores that they, too, are humans living in a society. Black lives matter. Instead of policing how and when they express that truth, we should be cheering on those athletes who speak up for justice the same way we cheer for them on the pitch on Saturdays. Tense protests over decades of police brutality against black people have quickly spread from Minneapolis to cities across the US. The protests began in the Midwestern city earlier this week, after a police officer handcuffed and pressed a knee on the neck of George Floyd, a 46-year-old black man, until he stopped breathing and died. Protests were mostly peaceful on Saturday, though some became violent as the night wore on. In Washington, D.C., the National Guard was deployed outside the White House. At least one person died in shootings in downtown Indianapolis; police said no officers were involved. Officers were injured in Philadelphia, while in New York two NYPD vehicles lurched into a crowd, knocking people to the ground. In Los Angeles, protesters faced off with officers with shouts of "Black Lives Matter!" as police confronted crowds with batons and rubber bullets. In some cities including LA, Atlanta, New York, Chicago and Minneapolis, protests have turned into riots, with people looting and destroying local shops and businesses. President Donald Trump has threatened to send in the military to quell the protests, saying his "administration will stop mob violence and will stop it cold." Trump's response has inflamed tensions across the country. He blamed the rioting on alleged far-left groups, but Minnesota Governor Tim Walz told reporters he had heard multiple unconfirmed reports of white supremacists stoking the violence. Many journalists covering the protests have found themselves targeted by law enforcement. On Friday, CNN correspondent Omar Jimenez and his crew were arrested while covering the story in Minneapolis, and several reporters have been hit with projectiles or detained while on air. DW's Stefan Simons was fired at by police as he prepared to go live on Saturday night. The protests have spread north of the border to Canada, with thousands marching in the streets of Vancouver and Toronto on Saturday. In Toronto, protesters also held signs to remember Regis Korchinski-Paquet, a black woman who fell from her high-rise apartment balcony while alone with police who had been called to her home on Wednesday. Thousands of people also marched past the US Embassy in the German capital, Berlin, on Saturday to protest the killing of Floyd and speak out against systemic racism. Author: Martin Kuebler