The number of coronavirus cases in Africa is on the rise, despite many countries enforcing measures recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO) — such as wearing personal protective equipment (PPE), following hygiene protocols and practicing "social distancing." A lack of coordination on a regional level could hamper those efforts and lead to more deaths. WHO has already warned that up to 190,000 people across Africa could die from the coronavirus in 2020 if countries fail to abide by its guidelines. Regional muddle Since early March, when the initial coronavirus cases were reported on the African continent, regional economic blocs have been sluggish to impose measures that would probably have flattened the COVID-19 curve. "African countries have different approaches to imposing lockdowns because of the economic situation," Alex Vines, director of Chatham House's Africa program, told DW. Rwanda's president, Paul Kagame, and the East African Community (EAC) chairperson during a May 12 virtual conference rallied their regional counterparts to cooperate in order to slow down the spread of COVID-19. Read more: South African app geared towards averting COVID-19 spread At an apartment building in Hillbrow, an inner city suburb of Johannesburg, residents looked on as police on the streets tried to enforce the nationwide lockdown In front of a supermarket in Yeoville, Johannesburg, social distancing measures still have room for improvement. Since March 27, strict measures have been implemented to contain the spread of the coronavirus in South Africa. In a shopping center close to Pretoria, chairs are spaced far apart to ensure that customers can maintain a safe distance from one another while they wait. Only food and other essentials can be bought and sold countrywide. The government has put a stop to public gatherings of all kinds in South Africa — and banned the sale of alcohol and cigarettes. But not everyone got the message: Eight men ended up at the police station in Johannesburg over game of cards. The South African National Defence Force was sent to patrol the country's streets. Soldiers will be given police powers during the lockdown, President Ramaphosa said. Reports suggest that police and security forces have used tear gas and rubber bullets on those who defy the lockdown. Defense Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula has condemned the violence and warned of consequences. A homeless woman was seen being escorted by the police and taken to a meeting point in central Johannesburg. The government had announced that safe accommodation would be provided to all homeless people during the lockdown. The train depot in downtown Johannesburg is full as rail travel has been canceled for the duration of the lockdown. Taxis and buses are still allowed to operate under certain conditions and to transport essential services staff. The COVID-19 lockdown in South Africa is expected to continue until at least April 17. The Heatlh Ministry has put the number of confirmed cases at 1,353 so far. However, mass testing will be carried out in the coming days, according to President Ramaphosa. Author: Jan Philipp Wilhelm Low turnout "So long as any member of our community is vulnerable, we are all at risk," Kagame said. "Therefore, we must work very closely together in the months ahead, to face this challenge as a community of partners." Out of six leaders, only four participated in the conference: Uganda's Yoweri Museveni, Kenya's Uhuru Kenyatta, South Sudan's Salva Kiir, and President Kagame of Rwanda. "We need to work for our people, and if we can't work together, the six of us, and have things moving, it doesn't mean that two, three, four shouldn't work, in these circumstances, to deal with the problems that we have to deal with," Kagame said. Read more: South African app geared towards averting COVID-19 spread Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3afjT Uncoordinated approach Conspicuously, Tanzanian President John Magufuli and Burundi's Pierre Nkurunziza didn't participate. Magufuli has rejected pleas to impose a lockdown and instead urged his people to seek divine intervention. "Magufli's position is more political and ideological," said Vines. "Tanzania has taken a more nationalistic strategy by ignoring WHO guidelines," he told DW. "The paradox is that we are hearing that many Tanzanians are affected by COVID-19 despite economic indicators showing that it will be one of the few countries that will have GDP growth 2020." On the other hand, Nkurunziza is busy with elections as cases in his country continue to soar. On May 14, Burundi expelled WHO representatives and declared them persona non grata. John Nkengasong, Africa's CDC chief, has called Burundi's action "unfortunate" and said any differences shouldbe addressed by dialogue instead of actions that affect thepandemic response. "We don't have the luxury ofkicking out the WHO," he told reporters. "This war has to be won in a coordinated fashion,and coordination is key. We're in dire need of expertise […] we encourage countries to do the right thing." Read more: Flora Nwapa: Mother of modern African literature The Sahara Desert and the Sahel zone are home to the Tuareg people who live nomadically on the African continent. The turban head covering of the Tuaregs, as well as the face veils worn by the men, protect them from the sun and sand. Yet they're not only worn for functional reasons: Head coverings convey respect and dignity, while donning the veil is also a male rite of passage into adulthood. Only Tuareg men cover their faces. According to tradition, the veil protects against the spirits of the dead, called "Kel Eru," who could try to enter them while traveling through the desert. Historically, Tuareg turbans and veils were dyed with indigo, which leaves traces of coloring on one's skin. Because of this, Tuaregs were known as the "blue people" of the desert. The Tuareg people belong to the larger group of Berbers, nomadic people residing in North Africa. These days, many of them are now settled in specific locations. In Niger, they call themselves "Imajeghen," in Algeria and Lybia "Imuhagh," and "Imushagh" in Mali. The foreign word "Tuareg" goes back to the Berber word "Targa," which was used to describe a province in Libya. The traditional headdresses and face veils of the Tuareg are called "Tagelmust" or "litham." The yellow "litham" in the photo is worn by a man living in the Moroccan part of the Sahara. He belongs to the Berbers of Morocco. Traditionally during conflicts, a cloth like this made the wearer harder to recognize. Like the Tuaregs and Berbers, Bedouins are also nomadic desert dwellers. They live on the Arabian Peninsula and in neighboring states including Israel and Egypt. The name of the cloth that this man in the picture wears in the Libyan Desert of Egypt is called "Kufiya," or in some areas "Ghutra" or "Hatta." How it's worn varies from region to region. It is also the men and not the women who veil themselves among the Tubu people, who mostly live in the northern Chad basin. The men are in charge of sewing clothes as well. The Tubu often work as shepherds, taking care of sheep and goats or breeding camels. The veil is also to be found in the state of Kano in the West African Republic of Nigeria, as worn here by the current emir. Until March 2020, this was Muhammadu Sanusi II (pictured above at his appointment in 2014). His successor is Aminu Ado Bayero. The Emir of Kano is the second most important Muslim leader in the country after the Sultan. Many female Muslims cover their faces with a niqab. It is widespread on the Arabian Peninsula, but less frequently in North Africa. The woman in this picture also wears the traditional abaya — a floor-length overcoat — and a headscarf. However, Morocco imposed a burqa and niqab sales ban in 2017. This could have been due to security concerns. Religious women in Somalia dress differently today. While Muslims traditionally did not cover their faces with a niqab in this East African country, it has been seen more often since the 1980s due to the increased influence of Islam — especially in cities. In the picture, some students in Mogadishu wear a niqab. A little further south, in Zanzibar, which is a part of Tanzania, there are also women who cover their faces. Almost exclusively Muslims live in the Zanzibar archipelago. Covering the face is no longer uncommon on the entire African continent. Due to the coronavirus, in Kenya, for example, it is now mandatory to wear a face covering n in public. But not everyone can afford disposable masks. In Kibera, an impoverished neighborhood in Nairobi, designer David Ochieng distributes reusable fabric masks which he and his company, Lookslike Avido, make for those in need. Designer David Ochieng (pictured), who goes by the name Avido, is seen here wearing one of the masks he made. Avido grew up in the neighborhood of Kibera and typically wears his own designs. This fall, his company Lookslike Avido was invited to attend the Ökorausch-Festival in Cologne, Germany, which highlights sustainable design. Furniture-maker Sara Reeves was forced to close her workshop in Nairobi during the coronavirus crisis, so she and her team turned to making masks instead. They use the colorful kitenge fabrics typical of East Africa. She donates one mask for each she sells. In this way, masks will "get into the hands and onto the faces of people in need of protection," says Reeves. Around 300 seamstresses in a factory in Nairobi produce around 20,000 disposable masks every day. Some factories in Kenya have shifted production to make surgical masks and other protective equipment, often with no prior experience. The same is happening around the world, in countries including Mexico and the Palestinian territories, where factories are adapting to meet the growing need for gear. Author: Verena Greb (sh) Closed borders On the west coast, the situation is not any different. During a virtual conference, Ghanaian President Nana Akufo-Addo told national leaders from the Economic Community for West African States (ECOWAS) that Ghana had decided to close borders with neighboring countries to stop imported cases. "I think it's very important that we tailor a specific Ghanaian, response to the handling of this pandemic, and not necessarily copy blindly the methods that are being adopted by countries to the north of us and elsewhere," Akufo-Addo told the leaders. But Alex Vines thinks "that there's need to have a common understanding of regional travel, especially that we are still at the beginning of the COVID-19 trajectory." Regardless, in a joint communique, ECOWAS leaders reaffirmed their commitment to push for collective and coordinated efforts in the determined fight against COVID-19 and to take the appropriate measures to contain the impact and revive the economies. Read more: Coronavirus pandemic poses threat to undocumented migrants At first everyone thought the coronavirus was a Chinese problem. Wuhan? Never heard of it. Wuhan was far away. The authorities in Beijing initially didn't tell anyone about the dangerous virus that was spreading. Then they placed Wuhan citizens, and people throughout Hubei province, under house arrest. The world watched and thought it was safe. But the virus did not care about borders — and hit the road. Dutch cartoonist Tjeerd Royaards adds a whole new dimension to the term "globetrotter." Suddenly, more and more people in other countries fell ill and died. Surrounded by the novel coronavirus, people all over the world feel defenseless against it. There is no vaccine and nobody knows what is going to happen, not even virologists and doctors. Paolo Calleri sums up this feeling of helplessness that has a firm grip on people. "Stay at home" is the order of the day around the globe to avoid a COVID-19 infection. But even at home, the treacherous virus is never far from people's minds. Turkish cartoonist Menekse Cam portrays here a girl who is trying to fall asleep, and ends up counting viruses instead of the traditional sheep. Social distancing gives many people the feeling they are stuck on a deserted island. In the cartoon, a Borussia Dortmund football fan doesn't want to give up his beloved Borsigplatz square, the legendary place where his club was once founded and which has seen many a championship celebration. The Italians, who were initially the hardest-hit nation in Europe, sang and played music during the lockdown, evening after evening, from their balconies. Some simply took a moment out of their day to applaud the heroes of the crisis, the doctors and nurses. The balcony concerts created a sense of community across all social distancing requirements: Tutto andrà bene — everything will be ok. The curfews were more drastic in Southern Europe than elsewhere. People in Germany, for instance, were allowed to leave the house, but had to comply with keeping a distance of at least 1.5 meters to others or risk paying heavy fines. The public order office staff have been relentless. Wearing face masks minimizes the risk of infection, so it is mandatory in many countries. But what do you do when the shelves in the supermarket are empty and the masks are sold out? Improvisation is called for, as far as the Russian cartoonist Sergei Belozerov is concerned. Follow his lead, and you can enter the doctor's waiting room without having to worry. Wash your hands, wash your hands and wash your hands again: It's what politicians and doctors have been repeatedly recommending to help us survive the war against the coronavirus — and so does Uncle Sam. Don't listen to US President Donald Trump, however, who thought injecting disinfectant would be a good idea. It's a race against time. Research labs are looking for a vaccine against the coronavirus. Until they find one, the deadly game between mankind and the disease, as seen by Zach, a cartoonist from the Philippines, will continue. The outcome is uncertain. In order to protect their citizens, governments around the world mandated lockdowns, which had devastating consequences for the economy. Many companies are on the brink of bankruptcy. Despite aid programs, millions of people no longer know how to pay rent and food. For Rodriogo from China, the economic crisis is an even bigger monster than the virus: "Guess what's coming next?" One day, this pandemic will be history, just like the Spanish flu. Grandfathers will tell their grandchildren what it was like when people stockpiled dried and canned goods, about this awful time when stores ran out of toilet paper and you were left fighting for the last few rolls... Author: Suzanne Cords (db) 'Miracle herb' Ghana has confirmed 4,700 positive cases, and 22 people have died of coronavirus-related causes the highest so far in the region. Another 494 have recovered. Countries such as Guinea Bissau, Equatorial Guinea, and Liberia have already imported Madagascar's "miracle herb" Artemisia that has been touted to heal Coronavirus. Togo and Chad have reportedly ordered the potion, others — such as Nigeria —are being more cautious. However, WHO warned on its website that there is "no evidence to suggest that COVID-19 can be prevented or treated with products made from Artemisia-based plant material." Read more: Opinion: Coronavirus conspiracy theories on the rise Scramble for PPE In southern Africa, the situation in Zimbabwe remains dire for health workers who are not given personal protective equipment (PPE) when dealing with patients showing coronavirus symptoms. Zimbabwe is in the grip of its worst economic crisis in a decade, marked by shortages of foreign currency, cash, food, and medicines. Kenyan fashion designer David Avido with a mask he made from cloth remnants PPE shortage At a recent virtual meeting of countries neighboring South Africa, President Cyril Ramaphosa acknowledged that one of the biggest challenges the continent faces is access to personal protective equipment. One of the biggest challenges the continent faces is access to personal protection equipment. "I have appointed Zimbabwean businessperson Strive Masiyiwa to assist with efforts to source personal protection equipment for the region and the continent," Ramaphosa told SADC leaders. "I have also engaged with the leaders of various countries, such as Cuba, China, Russia, France, Canada, and the United States, to ask for support for the continent." According to Vines, "African agencies have been pushing the Chinese to moderate their position, and the Chinese have agreed that they will synchronize their approach to debt relief with the Paris club for creditors. This approach is new and has not happened before." Read more: COVID-19: Tests for 'miracle cure' herb Artemisia begin Most mammals can synthesize vitamin C i.e., produce it themselves. But humans can't; we must ingest this water-soluble micronutrient with our food. Vitamin C can be found in kiwis, oranges and grapefruits, but also in vegetables such as brussels sprouts, broccoli and peppers. Unfortunately, it is somewhat heat-sensitive — so be careful when cooking! Vitamin C is not just a nice-to-have that is mainly important for the old, the sick and vegans. On the contrary, its biochemical functions are the same and equally important in every body. Vitamin C is one of the micronutrients that, although they do not provide the body with energy, are essential for its basic functions. These include cell metabolism and our defense system. As an antioxidant, vitamin C reduces the damage caused by oxygen free radicals to molecules that are essential for the body. These radicals are produced during normal metabolic processes. However, harmful substances such as tobacco quickly lead to oxidative stress and the increased formation of free radicals. This also increases the need for vitamin C. The human body doesn't just use the vitamin C of these strawberries to protect against oxygen radicals; the vitamin is also an important cofactor in a number of enzymatic activities, such as the synthesis of the protein collagen, which forms part of tendons, bones, cartilage and the skin. Poor wound healing can thus indicate a vitamin C deficiency. The body needs vitamin C to defend itself against infections. As an antioxidant, vitamin C is responsible not only for cell protection; it also goes on the attack in the event of an infection. It stimulates the migration of immune cells, known as neutrophils, to the site of infection, promotes phagocytosis — cellular waste disposal — and kills pathogens. Severe vitamin C deficiency can lead to scurvy. Symptoms of this potentially fatal disease are poor wound healing, bruising, loss of hair and teeth and joint pain. To protect against it, 10 milligrams of vitamin C daily are sufficient. Sufficient vitamin C is also associated with a lower risk of high blood pressure, coronary heart disease and strokes. According to the German consumer advice center, the recommended daily intake of vitamin C is 110 mg for men and 95 mg for women. Oregon State University researchers recommend 400 mg per day for all adults. The vitamin is harmless, and if too much is ingested, it is excreted in the urine. Researchers say that whether taken as a dietary supplement or as brussels sprouts, it is the same vitamin C. Author: Julia Vergin AU's role The African Union and its Center for Disease Control and Prevention (ACDC) have been quite effective in advising on what standards are ethical and work very closely with WHO. "There have been several AU initiatives that are pushing for immediate debt relief," said Vines. Vines also thinks that some economies are too weak to follow specific routes. If you look at SADC countries, there's been different responses from Botswana, Angola, Mozambique, and Zimbabwe. "For example, a country like Mozambique cannot afford to impose a lockdown the way South Africa did." There debates on how the disease will impact the continent are still ongoing, but the generosity of the international community to share information is going to be crucial. However, African countries must avoid being squeezed by the geopolitical rivalry between the US and China about COVID-19, according to Vines. It should be noted that the virus has spread quickly on the continent over the last weeks, with infections topping 75,543 by May 14, while more than 2,500 patients have lost their lives, according to the latest figures from Africa Center for Disease Control. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3XNT0 Every day, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. Sign up for the newsletter here.