Borussia Mönchengladbach 1-3 Bayer Leverkusen (Thuram 52' – Havertz 7', 58' pen, Bender 81') Borussia Park Marco Rose was well aware of Bayer Leverkusen’s strengths. After all, they’re not too dissimilar to those of his own team. "Leverkusen are a very complete side; they work intensively against the ball and press well," said the Borussia Mönchengladbach coach ahead of the game. "Both teams want to control the play, we’re very similar." But Rose will also have been aware of one key difference between his Gladbach and Peter Bosz’s Leverkusen: Leverkusen have Kai Havertz. The 20-year-old scored twice in his team’s 4-1 hammering of Werder Bremen on Monday and took only seven minutes to put his side ahead here, a neat finish under the goalkeeper setting the Werkself on course for a third consecutive Bundesliga win. The victory sees them leapfrog their opponents and move to third, but RB Leipzig can overtake them if they beat Mainz on Sunday. If Havertz' opener demonstrated finesse, his second, a penalty to restore Leverkusen’s lead after the break, was pure power. Yann Sommer got a good hand to it but couldn’t keep it out. A step ahead: Elvedi can't stop Diaby from getting a shot away Stinging shots, delicate finishes, headers and positional flexibility – just some of the qualities which have propelled Havertz’ name to the top of the shopping lists of some of Europe’s biggest clubs. But the young German international has exhibited another characteristic in recent months: leadership. Despite his age, Havertz has pulled on the armband and is leading maturely from the front. "We intended to win here today and we did so deservedly," said the captain confidently post-match. "We had the game under control from the very first minute." Gladbach's day to forget An accurate analysis, although Gladbach were also architects of their own downfall. With the influential Denis Zakaria out injured, the Foals struggled to control midfield and Leverkusen came forward time and again, Karim Bellarabi, Kerem Demirbay and Moussa Diaby linking up well with Havertz – who also hit the bar just before half-time. Ramy Bensebaini, one of the Gladbach’s most impressive performers this season with five goals and two assists from left back, had an afternoon to forget with some disastrously wayward passing. After he gave the ball away in the build-up to Havertz’ opener, make that three assists. A short spell just after half time showed what Gladbach are capable of, with Marcus Thuram firing home an equalizer after a perfectly weighted through-ball from Alassane Plea, but Havertz’ penalty soon put Leverkusen back in front, before Sven Bender secured all three points late on. For all the similarities on paper, Bayer Leverkusen and Kai Havertz were in a different class. And they're well and truly back in the race for the Champions League. Before anybody had heard of COVID-19, Kai Havertz was expected to fetch north of €100 million ($109 million). Real Madrid, Barcelona, Liverpool, Juventus and Bayern Munich had all expressed interest. Now? His market value has fallen and his contract runs until 2022, but for the right offer, Leverkusen would be willing to sell. "I am ready to take a big step," Havertz recently told Sport Bild. The pacey striker says he doesn't want to go to Bayern Munich, so he's likely to move abroad. His style of play would fit in perfectly with Jürgen Klopp's "heavy-metal" football at Liverpool. Werner's contract, which runs to 2023, includes a release clause. According to Gazetta dello Sport, he can leave for €60 million - €50 million if RB fail to win the Bundesliga. After Timo Werner ruled out a move to Bayern Munich, Sane regained his status as the Bavarians' top transfer target. While coach Hansi Flick would have preferred Werner, sporting director Hasan Salihamidzic is determined to land the former Schalke player. The Bundesliga champions are said to have offered Manchester City €40 million. The expectation is that they will get this done. It seems to be all but certain that the 23-year-old Kosovan will leave Bremen at the end of the season. The only question is where he'll go. Liverpool, Leipzig and Dortmund are all seen as potential destinations. Werder's sporting director, Frank Baumann, could really use the cash Rashica should bring on the transfer market, especially if the club go down. He still has two years left on his contract in Dortmund, but there are no shortage of rumors. Sancho is probably England's most gifted player at the moment, so it's no wonder that some of the Premier League's top clubs would love to bring the 20-year-old home. Manchester United and Chelsea are thought to have the inside track. Playing in the Champions League is a priority for the youngster. The man who scored the goal that won Germany the 2014 World Cup will be out of contract in the summer, meaning Götze can leave BVB on a Bosman. During his short time at Hertha Berlin, Jürgen Klinsmann had expressed interest. There are also said to be several clubs in Italy, Spain and France who would like to sign the 27-year-old. AC Milan or Roma could be good bets to make it happen. Another World Cup winner is also on his way out at Dortmund. He's been on loan at Spartak Moscow but the Russians chose not to trigger a purchase option that would have set them back €7 million. If no offer comes from the Bundesliga, Schürrle can be expected to peddle his services to the highest bidder. Turkey or China seem like plausible landing points. The 25-year-old may not have played a single match in the Bundesliga, but the left back is on the wish list of several German clubs. Gosens, whose performances at Serie A outfit Atalanta have put him on Germany coach Joachim Löw's radar, is reportedly being courted by Borussia Dortmund, Eintracht Frankfurt and Schalke. His market value is estimated at €20 million. After two years on loan at BVB, the 21-year-old Moroccan is expected to return to the club that owns him, Real Madrid, and try his luck at breaking into the first team. In Dortmund, Hakimi has shown that he has the quality that should allow him to do so. Paris Saint-Germain had been interested, but they appear to have been scared off by the €55 million it would take to lure him. With his contract set to expire in 2021, RB Leipzig will need to move this summer if they are going to get a decent payoff for the 21-year-old . Bayern Munich are said to be interested, but the fixed transfer fee in his contract is €60 million. Leipzig are keen to extend his contract, but since it only runs for another year, his agent has been playing for time. According to Nice sporting director, Julien Fournier, the French U21 international is definitely on his way to the Bundesliga this summer. Mönchengladbach, Leverkusen, Hoffenheim and RB Leipzig are all said to be after Sarr, who is regarded as one of the biggest young defensive talents in Europe. Only a team that qualifies for the Champions League will have any chance of landing the 21-year-old. Author: Andreas Sten-Ziemons