Updates in Universal Coordinated Time (UTC/GMT) 13:00 Older people in Turkey have been stretching their legs for the first time in seven weeks as restrictive measures become more relaxed. People aged 65 and over were subjected to a stay-at-home curfew on March 21, but now they are permitted to venture out between 11 a.m. and 3 p.m..  "It's very nice to be out of the house after such a long time," said Ethem Topaloglu, 68, who wore a medical mask as he strolled in a park in Ankara,. "Although I've been able to sit on the balcony, it's not the same as walking around outside. My neighbors have been bringing my food and other things in these last weeks," he said as he walked. "It's important to stay at home and be safe but it's very difficult as well." Health Minister Fahrettin Koca tweeted his thanks to Turkey’s senior citizens for their "great support'' in fighting the outbreak by staying at home and reminded them to wear masks outside. Turkey has so far registered 137,115 infections, with 3,739 deaths resulting from the virus. 12:40 Iran has revealed it is ready to conduct a prisoner exchange with the US due to fears that COVID-19 could put the lives of the prisoners at risk, Iranian has media reported. Iranian news website Khabaronline.ir quoted Cabinet spokesman Ali Rabiei as saying there is a "readiness for all prisoners" to be included in the discussions, without condition. "But the U.S. has refused to answer, so far,'' said Rabiei. "We hope that as the outbreak of the COVID-19 threatens the lives of Iranian citizens in the US prisons, the US government eventually will prefer lives to politics." 11:44 Italy has tightened up conditions for the release of mafia mobsters from jail due to coronavirus fears after an outcry over the scheme meant to protect them against infection. A decree adopted overnight Sunday now requires that any release be reviewed every two weeks to ensure that it was fully justified and remains so. Some 376 mafiosi and drug dealers have been moved from jails to house arrest since March and judges have been examining freedom requests from 456 others, the Repubblica daily reported last week. The releases followed widespread riots in prisons in March by inmates fearful of catching the virus. Those freed include notorious Cosa Nostra boss Francesco Bonura and Franco Cataldo who was part of a gang that murdered the teenage son of a turncoat in 1996 and dissolved his body in acid. Read more: Coronavirus: Excess fatalities in Italy rise well above official death toll 11:17 Britain is planning to introduce an alert system for the level of threat posed by the novel coronavirus like the one already used to warn of terrorism risks, a government minister has told broadcaster Sky News. Communities Secretary Robert Jenrick said the alert system would range from level one (lowest threat) to level five (highest threat), with the country presently at level four. The system is to be administered by a new joint biosecurity center, Jenrick said, and would first be put in place in England before being implemented in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. The restrictions that are put in place or relaxed in a particular region or city would depend on what level is assigned to them, he said. Prime Minister Boris Johnson is expected to announce the introduction of the system on Sunday evening in a televised address. 11:13 Some 205 workers from a meat processing plant in western Germany have now tested positive for the coronavirus. A cluster of cases has unnerved officials in Coesfeld, a town on the Dutch border, after it spread through shared housing for the factory's mostly Eastern European staff. Some 950 of the 1,200 workers have so far been tested for the respiratory disease. The Westfleisch factory has been shut down, and authorities have ordered all staff at all slaughterhouses in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia to be tested for the virus. The spike in cases in Coesfeld has delayed the easing of restrictions on public life in the state. Read more: Germany: Coronavirus transmission rate rises above 1 Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3bztB 09:55 India is witnessing a rising number of infections among police officers. In the western state of Maharashtra alone, at least 786 officers have been found positive and seven have died, a police spokesman said on Sunday. Maharashtra has reported over 30% of the near 63,000 COVID-19 cases in India with a bulk of them concentrated in financial hub Mumbai and the city of Pune. More than 70 policemen in Delhi have also tested positive and one has died. Read more: Indian pharmacist dies after drinking coronavirus 'cure' 09:28 Despite Germany's much-lauded reduced working hours (Kurzarbeit) program, where the government subsidizes wages so that firms don't resort to mass lay-offs, millions of residents are still falling through the net. German newspaper Welt am Sonntag reports that two million people are suffering considerable financial losses because they're not entitled to state aid. Citing a survey by research firm Kantar, the paper said families and individuals aged between 30 and 39 are most affected by the economic fallout of the coronavirus pandemic. They include recipients of short-time work benefits, self-employed people and entrepreneurs. 09:08 Spain's daily death toll has again fallen to its lowest rate since mid-March. The number of fatalities from the COVID-19 dropped to 143 on Sunday, down from 179 the previous day, the health ministry reported. Overall deaths rose to 26,621 from 26,478 on Saturday and the number of diagnosed cases climbed to 224,390 from 223,578 the day before. The country is planning to further ease restrictions after one of the world's harshest lockdowns. On Monday, selected regions that are home to about 51% of the Spanish population will reopen bars, restaurants, shops, museums, gyms and hotels. The easing will not include Madrid and Barcelona. 09:03 Russia says 11,012 new coronavirus infections have been registered, bringing the country’s official number of cases to 209,688. Authorities said 88 people had died in the past day, with the national death toll now standing at 1,915. The mayor of Moscow, Sergei Sobyanin, said on Thursday that lockdown measures in Russia's capital would be extended to May 31, with Muscovites required to wear face masks and gloves in all public places and on all public transport. The city has the highest concentration of COVID-19 cases in the country, with more than 100,000 people testing positive for the disease. Russia has the world's second-fastest rate of new infections behind the United States. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3byUH 08:30 Germany is relaxing rules on who can enter the country for Mother's Day, declaring a visit to one's mother to be a valid reason for crossing the border for just this one day, according to the DPA news agency. For weeks, people wanting to enter Germany have had to present important reasons for doing so. Truck drivers, medical personnel and commuters from border regions, for example, have been allowed to cross the border freely. The restrictions were introduced in mid-March in a bid to stem the spread of the illness COVID-19 in Germany. As things stand, they are to be kept in place until Friday at least. 07:43 China has reported its first coronavirus infection for over a month in the city of Wuhan, where the outbreak of the respiratory disease first emerged. The case is one of the 14 new infections that Beijing confirmed on Sunday. The last time Wuhan had a case was on April 3. After the first cases were reported in December, the city's health system was quickly overwhelmed with seriously ill patients. China says 4,637 have died from COVID-19, most of them in Hubei province, which Wuhan sits in. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3bysB 07:28 Singapore has registered 876 new coronavirus infections, its health ministry said on Sunday, taking the city-state's total to 23,336 cases. The vast majority of the newly infected people are migrant workers living in dormitories, the health ministry said in a statement. The government has deployed a robot dog to a local park this weekend to enforce social distancing measures. The yellow and black canine gadget from Boston Dynamics is equipped with cameras to estimate the number of people in the area. It also plays a pre-recorded message to warn visitors to keep their distance from each other. The robot dog, designed by Boston Dynamics, will help Singapore authorities monitor public gatherings 07:04 Malaysia has extended curbs on public movement by another four weeks, amid a gradual reopening of the economy. Earlier this week, businesses were allowed to resume, albeit under strict health guidelines, after closing for two months as health authorities worked to contain the pandemic. Malaysia has so far reported 6,589 cases with 108 deaths. The conditional movement control order, which prohibited large gatherings, interstate travel, secured the country's borders and banned Malaysians from traveling abroad,  will remain in place until June 9. 06:54 Despite Germany's second division soccer club Dynamo Dresden being ordered to undergo a two-week quarantine, the managing director of the German football league says he doesn't see the resumption of Bundesliga matches being delayed. "I was fully aware that this could happen at any time. We are just at the beginning of the re-opening," DFL's Christian Seifert told public broadcaster ZDF. "If Dresden goes into quarantine for 14 days, that is no reason to put the entire season in doubt," Seifert added. But he admitted: "There is a point when it is no longer feasible. It always depends on how much time you'd have left to finish the season." The Bundesliga announced this week that it would restart on May 16 after being given the green light by the government. Dynamo Dresden has two confirmed coronavirus cases, and the self-isolation measures will affect not only the team but the entire coaching and support staff. The team's away game at Hannover 96 planned for 17 May has been postponed. 06:41 Germany has reported 667 new coronavirus infections, according to the Robert Koch Institute, the government's agency for disease control and prevention. That takes the total number of cases to 169,218, with the number of deaths increasing by 13 to 7,395, According to the RKI, around 144,400 people have now recovered, about 1,100 more than the day before. Meanwhile, Germany's transmission rate has, again, risen above the critical value of 1, with every patient now infecting more than one other on average. The latest estimate puts the so-called reproduction (R) number now at 1.10. RKI has repeatedly emphasized that for the outbreak to gradually subside, the rate must remain below 1. On Wednesday, the agency put the reproduction rate at 0.65, but said that since then the estimated figure had been rising steadily. The rise follows the lifting of many restrictions on public life and several days of encouraging news about the spread of the virus. Read more: Germany: Thousands of protesters slam isolation measures Thuringians are pioneers. Weimar is the first city in Germany to reopen restaurants and cafés. Since Wednesday (May 6), people have been sitting in the sun with a coffee or beer and enjoying a step back towards normality — while keeping their distance. Restaurants and hotels in the other federal states will also resume their limited operations by the end of May. Holidaymakers might also be able to travel to the Balearic or Greek Islands in summer. "If there are very few new infections there and the medical care works, one could also think about a summer holiday in those places", the Federal Government Commissioner for Tourism, Thomas Bareiß, told the "Tagesspiegel" newpaper. Long-distance travel, however, was likely to be cancelled this summer. On May 18th, the coronavirus lockdown for Bavaria's outdoor gastronomy is to end and the beer gardens will reopen. Of course under strict conditions, waiters have to wear masks, for example. On May 25th the indoor gastronomy is to follows, restaurants and cafes, with a limited number of guests. From May 30th onwards, the operation of hotels, and holiday homes in Bavaria will be allowed again. Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania is the first federal state to reopen to tourists from all over Germany: From May 25th they can again stay in hotels, guest houses and holiday homes. 60 percent of the bed capacity will be released for this purpose. This means that the tourist season can start with the Whitsun holidays in popular holiday regions like the Baltic Sea and the Mecklenburg Lake District. One of Beijing's most important sights can be visited again after months of closure due to the coronavirus crisis. From Friday (May 1), visitors are allowed back into the palace complex on Tiananmen Square under strict security conditions. Instead of the previously usual 80,000 visitors, a maximum of 5,000 guests are to be admitted daily. Germany extended on Wednesday (April 29) its worldwide travel warning due to the coronavirus crisis to at least June 14. The Federal Foreign Office said that "severe and drastic restrictions in international air and travel traffic and worldwide entry restrictions, quarantine measures and restrictions on public life in many countries can still be expected." Gastronomes have set up empty chairs in central locations in Germany, such as here in Düsseldorf, to draw attention to their situation in the coronavirus crisis. "Without direct financial aid, most of our businesses will not survive," says Guido Zöllick, President of the German Hotel and Restaurant Association. "Suppliers and partners are also increasingly being drawn deeper into economic crisis." Austria's Chancellor Sebastian Kurz is confident that the border between Austria and Germany will soon be opened again for tourists. Both countries are on the right track in containing the spread of the coronavirus, Kurz told ARD television on Wednesday (April 22). This is the precondition for a revival of tourism. He did not name an exact date for the opening of borders. "A normal holiday season with crowded beach bars and busy mountain huts will not be possible this summer. That would be unacceptable," German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said on Tuesday (April 21). However, he did not rule out the possibility that borders for tourists could be reopened before the summer and that holiday travel with certain restrictions might be possible. The Oktoberfest has been cancelled this year due to the coronavirus pandemic. Bavaria's premier Markus Söder and Munich's mayor Dieter Reiter announced the decision on Tuesday (April 21). "It pains us, and it is a great pity", said Söder. But in times of the coronavirus, the danger of infection at the folk festival, which attracts about six million visitors annually, would just be too great. The Prime Minister of Schleswig-Holstein, Daniel Günther, hopes that tourism on the North and Baltic Seas will be revived in the summer. Despite the coronavirus crisis, he "definitely did not write off the summer tourism business," he said on April 19. While they are now proscribed, stays in secondary residences, holiday homes and finally hotels could be made possible again in three steps. The government resolutions (April 15th) stipulate that people in Germany should continue to refrain from making private trips. The worldwide travel warning is to be upheld. Accommodation offers are only available for necessary and explicitly non-touristic purposes. Restaurants will also remain closed. Tourism is one of the industries that has been hit hardest in the coronavirus crisis. The entry ban imposed by the USA on foreign nationals from Europe will remain in place for the time being. Italy and Spain are still struggling with the coronavirus crisis and France has just extended measures to contain infections by the virus, US President Donald Trump said on Monday (April 13). The entry ban will remain in force until the countries show signs of improvement, Trump said. Hotels, cafes and souvenir shops are closed. It is unusually empty outside the Royal Palace in Palma (picture). The Easter season on the Spanish holiday island of Mallorca has been cancelled. The Majorcan hotel association now fears that due to the uncertain situation in the main markets of Germany and Great Britain, some hotels will remain closed even during the peak season. By Sunday (April, 5) 205,000 travelers had been brought back to Germany, according to the federal government. Airplanes from Peru and Colombia were the most recent to take off. More than 40,000 Germans however are still stranded abroad. Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said on Twitter. "We will continue our efforts to find solutions for the travelers who have not yet been able to return." Thousands of foreigners stranded in New Zealand because of the coronavirus crisis will be able to leave the Pacific state from Friday (April 3). On Thursday, the New Zealand government announced that it would allow the "safe and orderly departure of tens of thousands" of stranded people. Earlier it had stopped return flights by foreign governments. A light installation on the Matterhorn in Switzerland is giving a sign of solidarity and hope in the fight against the corona virus. Encouraging messages are also being projected on to many other tourist landmarks around the world. "Stay safe", "Stay at home" could be see on Monday evening on the Great Pyramid in Giza near the Egyptian capital Cairo. The repatriation process for Germans stranded abroad is ongoing. Until now, main destinations such as Egypt or Morocco have been addressed. "It will be more difficult with countries that only have small groups of scattered adventure vacationers," said the crisis manager of the German Foreign Office. Tourists in the Pacific Islands must first be rounded up in New Zealand and then flown out. After long delays Thailand closed its borders on Thursday (March 26). The authorities had delayed the decision for a long time to safeguard the tourism sector. Now tens of thousands of tourists are stuck in the Southeast Asian tourist country. The German government has so far not organized a repatriation for German tourists, as Thailand is not considered a risk region. The German foreign ministry announced on Wednesday (March 25) that, together with tour operators, it had brought back more than 150,000 Germans from abroad. Tour operator TUI added that almost 95 percent of the tourists who were stranded because of the coronavirus pandemic are now back in Germany. They were mainly flown out from Egypt, Spain, Portugal and the Cape Verde Islands. German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas has said that the warning against traveling abroad will remain in effect until the end of April. "This includes the Easter holidays," he said on Twitter. "Stay at home! Protect yourself and your fellow human beings," he appealed to the population. Many tour operators have also extended their travel ban until the end of April. The EU Commission is supporting the return to Europe of tens of thousands of long-distance travellers. It intends to cover a large part of the costs, since most of the flight connections have been cancelled. "We are here to help them return," Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said in a video message. African countries have also ordered numerous measures to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. South Africa, for example, has banned access to the country for people coming from risk areas. Nigeria is monitoring the temperature of travelers at airports, ports and borders. Cameroon has closed its borders indefinitely. The Australian government has imposed an indefinite ban on all foreign travel by its citizens. Prime Minister Scott Morrison also called on all Australians who are abroad to return home. A 14-day compulsory quarantine for all people entering the country has already been in place for some time. Here, too, it has become quiet in the cities. The coronavirus crisis is impacting travelers and the tourism industry with full force. Several tour operators, including TUI, has cancelled trips, and some airlines are shutting down. Germany's federal and state governments decided that overnight stays should only be used for "necessary and explicitly not for touristic purposes". Germans are to "no longer take holiday trips at home and abroad". The EU has closed its entire external borders for 30 days as from Tuesday (March 17, 2020). "All travel between non-European countries and the European Union will be suspended for 30 days," French President Macron said in a television address on Monday (March 16,2020) evening. The Schengen Area, which includes several non-EU countries, has also closed its external borders. More and more countries are sealing their borders, and many flights are cancelled. With special flights Lufthansa and its subsidiary Eurowings want to bring up to 6,500 stranded holidaymakers from the Caribbean, the Canary Islands and on Mallorca back to Germany. In Morocco, the German government is assisting German tourists who are stranded there due to their return flights being cancelled. On Monday morning (March 16, 2020), Germany introduced entry controls at the borders with the five neighboring countries: France, Denmark, Luxembourg, Austria and Switzerland. Border crossings will be reduced to what is strictly necessary. Goods can continue to pass through, including commuters, but not travelers without good reason. The duration of the measures remains open. Whether Spiekeroog, Sylt or Rügen: Vacation on the northern German islands in the North and Baltic Sea is no longer possible as of March 16, 2020. Those who had already moved into their accommodation have been asked to return home. The health systems of the islands are not equipped to deal with large numbers of infected people. Regulations are to follow for mainland tourism. Disneyland Paris and Disney World Florida have closed until the end of the month. Disney Cruise Line have also suspended all new departure through the same period. The company said the decision was made "with great caution" to protect guests and employees. The company said the parks in Tokyo, Hong Kong and Shanghai, which had already been closed, will also remain shut. All ski areas in the Austrian provinces of Salzburg and Tyrol are ending the winter season early. Cable car operation will be discontinued as of Sunday (March 15, 2020). Hotels and accommodations will be closed from Monday. The provincial governments said that this should slow down the spread of the virus in the Alpine country. The two provinces account for most leading Austrian ski areas. Due to the spread of the coronavirus, the USA is imposing a general 30-day travel ban on people from Europe. The entry ban comes into force on Friday (March 13, 2020) at midnight (local time). It does not apply to US citizens residing in Europe who have tested negative for the pathogen. India has declared all tourist visas invalid for 1 month because of the corona virus. Only travelers who are already in the country are allowed to stay, the Indian Ministry of Health announced on Wednesday (March 11, 2020). The entry ban is to last until April 15 for the time being. Climbing Mount Everest via the north side has been forbidden by Chinese authorities. The necessary permits for expeditions to the world's highest mountain were withdrawn on Thursday (March 12, 2020). In order to reduce the spread, the border into neighboring Austria can only be crossed from Italy with a medical certificate. Slovenia has closed its border, and Albania has banned Italian air and ferry traffic. Many airlines have cancelled flights to Italy until at least 3 April. Germany, the UK, and Ireland tightened travel recommendations and called on their citizens to leave. The Costa Crociere shipping company is cancelling all cruises in the Mediterranean for the time being. The cruises will be suspended until April 3, the Italian company announced on Tuesday (March 10). The measure affects thousands of passengers. Ships still operating in the Mediterranean will only call at Italian ports to let passengers disembark. The dome and roof terrace of the Reichstag parliament building in Berlin have been closed to visitors since Tuesday (March 10, 2020) until further notice to prevent the possible spread of the coronavirus. The walkable dome and the roof terrace are visited by more than 2 million people every year, according to the Bundestag. All ski facilities in Italy have been closed since Tuesday (March 10, 2020) due to the corona crisis. Prior to this, hoteliers and cable car operators in the South Tyrol region (photo) had already agreed to close their facilities. South Tyrol is particularly popular with winter sports tourists from Germany and Eastern Europe. The closure is effective until at least April 3. The Czech Republic (picture) and Poland are carrying out checks at the border with Germany to protect against the spread of the coronavirus. Since Monday (March 9), travelers have faced random temperature checks. The German government has warned against travelling to risk areas. And air passengers from China, Japan, South Korea, Iran and Italy will have to expect controls when entering Germany. On March 8 the Italian government issued an entry and exit ban for the more than 15 million inhabitants of the northern Italian regions, which include the key business center Milan and the tourist magnet of Venice (photo). Cultural, sporting and religious events are also banned for visitors. Museums, cinemas and theaters remain closed nationwide. Repeatedly cruise ships have to be quarantined or prevented from docking. After cancellations in Thailand and Malaysia, the Costa Fortuna (photo) with 2,000 passengers, including 64 Italians, has been allowed to enter the port of Singapore. In Oakland, California, 2,000 passengers and 1,100 crew members of the Grand Princess are quarantined because 19 of them have tested positive for COVID-19. Sights in Asia are particularly affected by travel restrictions for Chinese tourists. Hotspots such as the Senso-ji temple (picture) in Tokyo and the temple complexes of Angkor Wat in Cambodia are reporting a sharp drop in visitors. On March 9, the Ministry of Tourism in Thailand reported a 44% drop for February. Tourism accounts for 11% of the gross domestic product. Author: Andreas Kirchhoff, Susan Bonney-Cox 05:47 Japan says it may lift its state of emergency in areas least affected by the coronavirus pandemic sooner than originally planned. Economy Minister Yasutoshi Nishimura said on Sunday that many of the 34 prefectures that have fewer cases could see restrictions eased before the nationwide deadline of May 31. Nishimura, who is in charge of the government's overall coronavirus response, said a declining trend in the weekly number of new infections and the number of new cases on a per capita basis will be among evaluation criteria for the lifting. Out of Japan's 47 prefectures, the government has designated 13 prefectures including Tokyo and Osaka where the virus has spread rapidly as "the prefectures under specific cautions." 04:52 Tesla CEO Elon Musk has threatened to pull production and the firm's headquarters out of California after the carmaker was prevented from reopening its factory in the US state. In a lawsuit filed in a federal court, Tesla accused the Alameda County Health Department of overstepping federal and state coronavirus restrictions. The lawsuit contends Tesla factory workers are allowed to work during California's stay-at-home order because the facility is considered "critical infrastructure." "Frankly, this is the final straw," Musk tweeted. "Tesla will now move its HQ and future programs to Texas/Nevada immediately.'' An order in the six-county San Francisco Bay Area forced Tesla to close the plant starting March 23 to help prevent the virus' spread, and it was extended until the end of May. 04:28 Australia says it supports a European Union motion for an independent investigation into the origins of COVID-19 in China. Health Minister Greg Hunt told Sky News that the country backs an examination of China's wet markets and the potential for independent inspection powers. The government has been pushing for a better understanding of how the coronavirus started in Wuhan, to be able to counter such pandemics in the future. But it's stance has ratcheted up diplomatic tensions with Beijing. Ursula von der Leyen, the head of the EU's executive arm, said last week she would like to see China work together with the European Commission, and others, to determine how the virus emerged. Read more: Australia, New Zealand consider 'trans-Tasman bubble' Australia has reopened Bondi Beach to surfers and swimmers after it was closed last month to curb the spread of the virus 03:15 South Korea on Sunday reported 34 new cases of coronavirus, the highest daily tally in a month. The latest spike in figures comes from a small outbreak centered around night clubs in the Itaewon entertainment district in Seoul. On Friday, medical workers scrambled to trace contacts after a 29-year-old man who visited three nightclubs in the district last week later tested positive for the virus. Among the new cases, 26 were local transmissions and 8 were imported infections. For the past 10 days, South Korea had been reporting zero to very few domestic cases. The country has recorded a total of 10,874 confirmed cases with 256 deaths. 02:45 China reported 14 new confirmed cases of COVID-19 on Saturday. The latest figure is the highest since April 28 but it has risen by only one case from the previous day. Two of the new cases were imported infections. Among the locally transmitted cases, 11 were reported in Shulan in the northeastern province of Jilin. The coronavirus risk level of Shulan city has been raised from medium to high. Health authorities also found 20 new asymptomatic cases, the highest since May 1. China now has 82,901 confirmed cases of coronavirus and 4,633 deaths. Read more: Does US-China coronavirus blame game threaten scientific investigation? Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3bysB 02:40 Three top officials overseeing the United States coronavirus response are in self-quarantine after exposure to the virus. Anthony Fauci, Director of National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, Robert Redfield, Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and Stephen Hahn, the US Food and Drug Administration Commissioner, all came in contact with somebody who had tested positive for COVID-19. According to Politico, Hahn had come in contact with Katie Miller, the press secretary of US Vice President Mike Pence, who had tested positive on Friday. 01:45 The latest figures from Brazil show that more than 10,000 people have died from the virus. There are now a total of 155,939 confirmed cases in the country. However, citing low testing, scientists fear that the actual rate could be 15% to 20%t higher. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3byma 01:30 The total number of coronavirus cases reported worldwide has surpassed the four million mark with more than 277,000 deaths. The United States is the worst-hit country with 1.3 million confirmed cases and 78,618 deaths. Europe is the hardest-hit continent. It accounts for a total of 1.7 million cases and 155,000 deaths. 00:00 Catch up on yesterday's coronavirus news:  Germany's infection rate rises again In reporting on the coronavirus pandemic, unless otherwise specified, DW uses figures provided by the Johns Hopkins University (JHU) Coronavirus Resource Center in the United States. JHU updates figures in real-time, collating data from world health organizations, state and national governments and other public official sources, all of whom have their own systems for compiling information. Germany's national statistics are compiled by its public health agency, the Robert Koch Institute (RKI). These figures depend on data transmission from state and local levels and are updated around once a day, which can lead to deviation from JHU. dvv/aw (AFP, AP, Reuters, dpa) Every evening, DW sends out a selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.