Updates in Universal Coordinated Time (UTC/GMT) 09:15 Many archaeological, historical and religious sites across Greece and Italy have reopened this morning for the first time in two months. The Acropolis in Athens and all other open-air historical sites opened in Greece, admitting a handful of tourists. The Acropolis saw 2.9 million visitors last year and is one of Greece’s top tourism spots. Only limited visitors are allowed and social distancing regulations will be maintained and Greece is not expecting to reopen indoor museums until at least June 15. In Rome, St Peter’s Basilica in the Vatican reopened to visitors as Italy began to ease Europe’s longest-running lockdown. A handful of visitors had their temperatures checked before they entered. Pope Francis is not yet expected to lead any public religious ceremonies either in the basilica or in the Vatican square. The pontiff has been leading masses online which have been streamed to Catholics around the world. Other Italian churches will open up, including the Duomo cathedral in Milan which hosted its first Mass on Monday morning. 08:42 The EU’s medicines agency has said an initial authorization for the drug Remdesivir as a COVID-19 treatment. "It might be that a conditional market authorization can be issued in the coming days," European Medicines Agency (EMA) chief Guido Rasi told a hearing of the EU Parliament in Brussels. The EMA had already recommended a compassionate use of the drug, meaning it can be administered to patients before it has full authorization. Remdesivir is produced by US pharmaceutical company Gilead. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3bskX 08:33 The German cabinet has postponed a meeting to discuss outbreaks of coronavirus at slaughterhouses, hours after a further 92 people tested positive at a center in Lower Saxony. A government spokesperson said that cabinet members needed to seek more advice on the topic. Labor Minister Hubertus Heil had been set to lay out new regulations on slaughterhouses in Germany which would aim to improve working and living conditions for the employees, many of whom are migrant workers from eastern Europe. The cabinet meeting will now take place on Wednesday. 08:15 French President Emmanuel Macron is set to hold a video conference with German Chancellor Angela Merkel later on Monday. The two leaders plan to present a new French-German initiative relating to the EU coronavirus recovery plan. The EU is negotiating a plan to tackle the economic fall-out of coronavirus on member states. 08:00 German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas is due to hold a video conference with several of his counterparts across the EU later to discuss efforts to reopen borders and restart the tourism economy. Travel and tourism account for a major part of GDP in member states like Italy, Croatia, Spain, and Greece. 07:45 The Spanish cabinet is due to approve a program to grant a basic income to the poorest to face the economic impact of the coronavirus impact, the social security minister confirmed this morning. The €3 billion ($3.24 billion) program is set to help at least one million families, José Luis Escrivá told Spanish media. The news comes as Reuters news agency reports that Spain is planning to attempt to avoid cheap European Union bail-out funds. The EU is offering €240 billion in its new rescue fund, but Spain wishes to avoid the stigma of resorting to a rescue fund, according to government sources. 07:06 India has reported its biggest single-day surge in coronavirus cases. The country now has the most cases in Asia. There have been 5,242 new cases in the last 24 hours and 157 deaths, meaning India has had 96,169 cases overall and 3,029 people have died. The surge comes a day after the government extended the nationwide lockdown of the country’s 1.3 billion people for at least two weeks. Authorities have said that the new infection surge may be down to migrant workers returning to India’s small towns and villages in recent weeks. Flights, schools, hotels and restaurants remain closed until at least May 31. 06:30 Another large coronavirus outbreak has been reported at a German slaughterhouse, shortly before the German cabinet was set to discuss the risk of coronavirus in the meat industry. At least 92 workers at a slaughterhouse in Dissen in Lower Saxony have tested positive, the city of Osnabrück announced late on Sunday. Those infected and members of their households have been placed in quarantine and production has been stopped. The German "Corona Cabinet" was set to discuss changes to workplace safety regulations with a particular eye on slaughterhouses after over 200 people were infected in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia last week. Concerns have been raised about the working and living conditions of slaughterhouse workers, where many of the employees are eastern European temporary workers. The Food, Beverages and Catering Union has called on the government to take this opportunity to impose "fundamental reform" in the industry and give new "crystal clear" regulations for slaughterhouses. Read more: Coronavirus: 'Modern slavery' at the heart of German slaughterhouse outbreak Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3c0VB 06:00 Two of Europe's top football leagues were set to begin training again this morning, but only one will go ahead. Italy’s Serie A has postponed the start of training as clubs continued to disagree about the government-imposed medical rules. Several Italian top clubs already had plans in place for individual training or for training in small, socially distanced groups, but were hoping to expand the group sizes. The main point of disagreement regards the government's insistence that the whole team must quarantine for 14 days should one team member test positive. Serie A was hoping to recommence games on June 13 but with training postponed this may be unlikely. In Spain, La Liga will push ahead with training in groups of up to 10. The government announced Saturday that Spanish sports teams can return to activity regardless of the state of lockdown in their region. "It is very important that all teams are training at the same level and we are grateful that is now the case," La Liga president Javier Tebas told Spanish television. Spain has gone without organized soccer since March 12; Italy since March 9. Germany’s Bundesliga became the first major European league to resume action over the weekend. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3cFT3 05:19 New Zealand will launch a contact-tracing app on Wednesday, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern has confirmed. The "digital diary" will help people to record their personal movements, although the data will not be shared with anyone except for the user. "It's just in case in the future you find yourself with COVID-19, you’ve got an easy reference to tell you where you’ve been over a period of time," Ardern said. The island nation began easing regulations in late April and schools, restaurants and cafes have begun to reopen. New Zealand registered no new cases on Monday and, with around 1,500 cases overall, has recorded only 19 this month after a two-month lockdown period. The government says 21 people have died from the virus in the country of five million. 04:00 Several countries across Europe are rolling back COVID-19 restrictions on Monday, here's a breakdown of what's reopening: Italy: Restaurants, bars, hair salons, museums and most shops will once again open their doors after two months of lockdown. St. Peter's Cathedral is also reopening for visitors and people will once again be allowed to travel freely through their region. Spain: In Madrid and Barcelona, shops under 400 square meters can reopen although people will have to make appointments before visiting. Trips to museums will also be allowed. In other areas of Spain, larger shops will be allowed to reopen while residents on four Spanish islands will be allowed to exercise whenever they want. Portugal: The country is moving into the second phase of its plan to relax restrictions. Customers can once again dine in restaurants and cafes and pastry shops. Daycares will also reopen, while students in 11th and 12th grade will return to school. Belgium: Primary and secondary schools are reopening for students in their final year, albeit under strict social distancing rules. Museums and zoos can also reopen, although they must sell time-specific tickets online. Sports clubs can resume training as long as there are no more than 20 people present. Poland: Restaurants, cafes, bars, food courts and beauty salons are reopening under strict health and social distancing protocols. The number of people allowed to use sports facilities and public transport will also be increased. Greece: Visitors can once again visit the Acropolis in Athens. Students attending secondary school can also return to class. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3cK5e 03:20 The number of confirmed cases in Germany increased by 342 on Monday, up to 174,697 in total. The Robert Koch Institute reported 21 deaths, bringing the total deaths to 7,935. The reproductive rate at which the virus spreads — at 0.87 over the past week — has remained below the crucial value of 1, the institute said. In western Germany, 70 people tested positive for the novel coronavirus at a home for refugees, the district government in Cologne said on Sunday. 02:22 The World Health Organization (WHO) opens its first virtual assembly today, amid fears that tensions between the US and China could derail the strong action needed to address the coronavirus crisis. The World Health Assembly, which has been trimmed from the usual three weeks to just two days, Monday and Tuesday, is expected to focus almost solely on COVID-19, which in a matter of months has killed more than 310,000 globally, and infected nearly 4.7 million. Heads of state, government chiefs, health ministers and other dignitaries are expected to be involved WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on Friday the event would be "one of the most important since we were founded in 1948." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3b1Ij 01:52 China has reported seven new confirmed coronavirus cases for May 17, up from five a day earlier, the country's health authority says. Of the new cases, two were from the northeastern province of Jilin, which borders Russia and is currently in a partial lockdown due to a flare-up in infections. The total number of new infections in Jilin since the first case of the current wave was reported on May 7 is now 33. China’s financial hub of Shanghai reported one new locally transmitted case for May 17, which is the city’s first since late March. The other four new cases in the mainland involved travelers arriving from abroad to the northern Chinese region of Inner Mongolia. The total number of confirmed cases in mainland China stood at 82,954 as of May 17, while the death toll remained unchanged at 4,633. The country reported 18 new asymptomatic cases on May 17, compared with 12 the day before. The tally of confirmed infections does not include people who test positive but who show no symptoms. A woman walks past closed stores in Fengman District of Jilin City 01:00 Japan has slipped into recession for the first time since 2015, according to official data. The world's third-largest economy contracted by 0.9% in the first three months of 2020, following a 1.9% decline in the fourth quarter of 2019. With the country's gross domestic product (GDP) dropping for two consecutive quarters, the decline meets the technical definition of a recession and puts Japan on track for its worst post-war economic slump. The economic situation in Japan is believed to be even worse this quarter after Prime Minister Shinzo Abe declared a nationwide state of emergency in April following a rise in COVID-19 cases. 00:32 In Canada, a jet taking part in a "pandemic show" to boost morale during the coronavirus outbreak crashed shortly after takeoff. One crew member was killed and another was seriously injured. "It is with heavy hearts that we announce that one member of the CF Snowbirds team has died and one has sustained serious injuries,'' the Royal Canadian Air Force said in a tweet. The other crew member did not sustain life-threatening injuries, they added.   The crash took place in Kamloops, British Columbia with the jet reportedly hitting a residential home and sparking a fire. A video shot by a witness shows two Snowbirds jets taking off, with one almost immediately rearing up before plunging to the ground. The US and Canada have been carrying out flyovers in particularly hard-hit regions in a bid to lift spirits during the COVID-19 pandemic. First responders transport an injured person on a stretcher at the scene of the crash 00:01 Brazil's President Jair Bolsonaro flouted social distancing guidelines on Sunday, as his country faces one of the world's worst coronavirus outbreaks. Wearing a mask, Bolsonaro posed for pictures with supporters and did a series of push-ups with paratroopers — some of whom stretched out their right arms and swore allegiance to the president and his family. "This is a pure manifestation of democracy. I'm really honored by this," he said of the crowd of supporters who defied stay-at-home orders to take part in the rally. Read more: Brazil overtakes Spain, Italy in COVID-19 cases This weekend, Brazil's number of confirmed cases surpassed Spain and Italy — making the country the world's fourth-largest outbreak. With Brazil testing far less than other countries, experts warn that the actual number of cases is likely much higher than the official tally of over 240,000. Bolsonaro has repeatedly downplayed the severity of the virus and pushed to reopen businesses. 00:00 Catch up on yesterday's coronavirus news here: Spain deaths drop below 100 In reporting on the coronavirus pandemic, unless otherwise specified, DW uses figures provided by the Johns Hopkins University (JHU) Coronavirus Resource Center in the United States. JHU updates figures in real-time, collating data from world health organizations, state and national governments and other public official sources, all of whom have their own systems for compiling information. Germany's national statistics are compiled by its public health agency, the Robert Koch Institute (RKI). These figures depend on data transmission from state and local levels and are updated around once a day, which can lead to deviation from JHU. tg,rs/rc (AP, AFP, dpa, Reuters) DW sends out a daily selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.