Since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, international aid organizations have been warning that an outbreak in the world's refugee camps could have catastrophic consequences. To prevent such a scenario, Bangladesh has largely sealed off the Kutupalong refugee camp in Cox's Bazar – inhabited mostly by the Rohingya people who fled from ethnic and religious persecution in neighboring Myanmar – since the start of April 2020. People are allowed to move in and out of the camp only if it's strictly necessary. Police have set up roadblocks and patrols to enforce the restrictions on public movement. In recent weeks, aid organizations such as the International Rescue Committee (IRC) and CARE Germany have been preparing for an outbreak as best as they could. Medical personnel have been trained and isolation centers have been set up. According to IRC, a camp with 1,700 beds is planned, and several hundred beds are already operational. There is an intensive care unit with ten ventilators. Subscribe to Corona Compact — DW's newsletter tracking coronavirus in Asia Bhasan Char, which means "floating island" in Bengali language, emerged less than 20 years ago in the Bay of Bengal. The island is located 30 kilometers (18.6 miles) away from mainland Bangladesh. The government of the Muslim-majority country plans to relocate some 100,000 Rohingya refugees to this island from overcrowded Cox's Bazar refugee camps. There is no proper transport for the common people to go to the island. Some people told DW that the roughness of the sea makes it difficult to reach the island on boats during the monsoon season. The government has erected a 13-kilometer-long and 3-meter-high embankment to protect the island from high tides and floods. Still, the outer part of the embankment goes 3 to 4 feet underwater twice a month during high tides, according to the island's shopkeepers. The government has built 1,440 single-storey buildings, with 16 rooms in each, to house the Rohingya refugees. At least four members of a family have to live in a small room. 120 four-storey shelter houses are also available, to be used during cyclones. All buildings at Bhasan Char are equipped with solar panels to fulfil their energy demands. A big solar field and two diesel generators for electricity have also been installed. The island has a rainwater harvesting system as well as tube wells to provide drinking water. The silt island is called a "floating island" due to its unstable nature. Satellite images detected the island in 2002. Bangladeshi authorities have built a structure with pylons, gravel and sandbags to stop the erosion of the island. While some experts say the island is still very fragile and uninhabitable, climate change specialist Ainun Nishat is of the opinion that people can live here if the embankment is heightened to 6.5 to 7 meters. However, he doesn't think that farming is possible on the island. The refugees fear they could die as a result of a cyclone if they are forcibly moved to the island. Many of their children could drown in the sea, they say. While the island is almost ready to host Rohingya refugees, the government has yet to make a decision on transferring them to it. Several sources say the relocation could take place in November. The Bangladeshi government has hinted it might have to force the refugees to go there if no one chooses to leave the Cox's Bazar's refugee settlements. Author: Arafatul Islam, Naomi Conrad First confirmed case A few days ago, a refugee residing in the camp became sick. He went to the nearest health center, where a doctor suspected COVID-19 because of his symptoms. A test was conducted and the results were sent to a laboratory, which confirmed on Thursday that the patient contracted the disease. "The infected Rohingya person is being treated in isolation at a Doctors Without Border (MSF) hospital in Cox's Bazar," Mohammad Mahfuzar Rahman, an official working for the Refugee, Relief and Repatriation Commissioner (RRRC) and in charge of the Ukhiya Kutupalong camp, told DW. "Six members of his family have been kept in quarantine separately. Their samples will be collected later and sent to the local medical college lab for testing," he added. Since the detection of the first case, the Bangladeshi government and several aid organizations have been striving to identify the chain of transmission, IRC told DW. But the process is still ongoing. As a result of the confirmed case, more than 855,000 refugees and asylum-seekers in the camp and over 440,000 residents living in the immediate vicinity of the overcrowded camp now face the threat of being infected with the virus. Outside the camp, there have already been COVID-19 cases, but the government says they are under control. Read more: Reporting the coronavirus at a Rohingya camp: "Saving lives is now the most important task" Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3aqBG Additional resources needed Despite all the efforts, additional resources would be needed to prevent a catastrophe, Manish Agrawal, Bangladesh country director at the IRC, told DW. "Health facilities are already crowded and overwhelmed, without the sufficient equipment, health staff or physical space necessary to treat cases." Even before the outbreak of COVID-19, sanitary facilities in the camp were already inadequate, with many families sharing toilets and often long lines building up at access points to drinking water and washrooms. It is impossible to maintain physical distancing in the cramped accommodation. Under such conditions, rapid transmission of the virus is inevitable. "Here, there are 40,000 to 70,000 people living per square kilometer. That's at least 1.6 times the population density on board the Diamond Princess cruise ship, where the disease spread four times as fast than in China's Wuhan province at the peak of the outbreak," said Agrawal. Read more: Are Bangladesh's low-cost coronavirus test kits reliable? Awareness important, but difficult Despite various campaigns, Agrawal sees a lack of awareness among the camp's residents. Experts say internet restrictions imposed by the government to curb the spread of rumors and false information have contributed to the problem. "Internet and mobile phone restrictions in the camp have led to a lack of sufficient and accurate information about the virus and how to protect oneself from the disease. These restrictions also impact the ability of agencies to respond swiftly in case of a reported case in the camps," Agrawal said. It's unclear whether all of the camp residents are aware of the first confirmed case there. "The Rohingya in Cox's Bazar have already suffered unspeakable trauma. We therefore urge the international community to provide financial support to aid organizations working in Bangladesh," said Deepmala Mahla, Asia regional director for CARE Germany. Read more: COVID-19 lockdown increases domestic violence in Bangladesh Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Pzga