British scientists have found that an existing drug can significantly improve the chances of survival after snake bites. It has already worked in animal experiments. The active substance that the research team from Liverpool wants to use against snake bites is called dimercaprol. So far, it, or the related 2,3-Dimercapto-1-propanesulfonic acid (DPMS), have been used mainly after heavy metal poisoning with arsenic, mercury or lead, for example. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3RB6q Now, new research shows the two active ingredients also help to protect against snake venom. This was the idea of the biochemist and molecular biologist Laura Oana-Albulescu from the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine (LSTM). She and her team had been looking for active ingredients that would bind to metal ions that act in the body together with snake venom. Dimercaprol and DPMS work against enzymes in snake venom that rely on zinc ions to exert their devastating effects. The drugs do this by binding the zinc ions. The researchers were first able to show this in the laboratory. They published their results in the journal Science Translational Medicine on May 6, 2020. They also succeeded in proving in animal experiments that DPMS could protect against the deadly effect of the poison of the saw-scaled viper.  One of the most widespread poisonous snakes, it lives in Africa, the Middle East and Asia and is responsible for a large proportion of fatal snake bites. About 138,000 people die each year worldwide from snakebites, according to the LSTM, and 400,000 people suffer irreparable damage to their health. Read more: Snakebites kill at least 80,000 people per year and probably more The inland taipan produces the most toxic venom in the snake kingdom. Researchers estimate that one bite could kill more than 100 men. The taipan's venom is specially adapted to kill warm-blooded animals. It affects the nervous system, the blood and the muscles. The species lives in semi-arid regions in Australia and is strictly protected. Though its venom only kills one out of 10 untreated people, the aggressiveness of this snake means it bites quickly and often. This is why the saw-scaled viper is considered the world's deadliest snake, killing the most people. Venomous snakes have diamond-shaped pupils, like cats. Non-venomous snakes have round pupils, like humans. But remember: there is no rule without exceptions! The green anaconda is the largest snake in the world. Living in the dark, deep waters of the South American jungle, some anacondas have been reported to be up to 8.8 meters (29 feet) long. The average anaconda is only about 4 meters long. They are very robust snakes and packed with muscles which they use to kill their prey by wrapping around it and slowly suffocating it. The green anaconda is nothing compared to the titanoboa. This pre-historic snake was a true giant. The photo shows a python creeping over a single vertebra of titanoboa cerrejonensis discovered in Colombia. Fossils suggest titanoboas could grow up to 13 meters long and weigh 1,135 kilograms (2502 pounds). Like the green anaconda, they probably lived in or very close to water, 40 million years ago. The Barbados threadsnake is about 10 centimeters long and, according to its discoverer "about as wide as a spaghetti noodle." It feeds on termites and ant larvae and is found only on the Caribbean island of Barbados. S. Blair Hedges, a herpetologist from Pennsylvania State University, discovered the species in 2008. Snakes have a flexible lower jaw that enables them to swallow animals twice their own size. But sometimes even that is too much for them. In 2005, in the Everglades National Park in Florida, a python exploded after trying to swallow a whole alligator. The snake was found with the alligator's tail sticking out of its midsection. Seems like someone got a bit greedy. Just a leaf? No, it's a gaboon viper. The form and color of its head resembles a leaf perfectly, enabling the ambush predator to wait patiently for prey coming by in the African rainforests. It has the longest fangs of all snakes - up to 5 centimeters (2 inches) - and is also very venomous. The snake is not at all aggressive, though. Only very few people are bitten by it. This guy, the scarlet kingsnake, is non-venomous. But it doesn't want other animals to know that. So it mimics the venomous coral snake which has the same tricolored pattern of black, red and white. It's a sneaky way to tell predators to get lost. Snakes are everywhere - you can even find them at a coral reef. Some of those sea snakes are really venomous. Unlike fish, they do not have gills and need to get up to the surface regularly to breathe. Sea snakes can grow up to 3 meters (9.8 feet), but the majority only grows up to 1.5 meters. This species, the banded sea snake, regularly returns to land to digest its food, rest and reproduce. This snake can propel itself forward by thrusting its body up and away from a tree. That's why it is commonly known as the "flying snake." It curls itself up to resemble the form of a frisbee and glide up to 30 meters wide from tree to tree. Its biological name is Chrysopelea and it feeds on lizards, rodents, birds and even bats. But it's harmless to humans. Author: Brigitte Osterath, Sophia Wagner Inexpensive and quickly available Most importantly, the physicians were also able to show that the drug worked when administered orally. Until now, dimercaprol has been injected mainly as an oily solution based on peanut oil. As it can also be taken as a tablet, it would be an excellent first aid after snakebites if patients could not be quickly admitted to hospital. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/31xzD Liverpool doctors believe that DPMS could bridge the time between being bitten and professional help arriving, especially before the administration of an antiserum. It will not be a substitute, but could save lives, especially in countries where it can take many hours for a patient to receive a serum. Tropical disease biology professor Nicolas Casewell of LSTM, who focuses on snakebites, emphasized that one of the major advantages of DMPS is that it is already approved as a drug. "The advantages of using a compound like DMPS is that it is already a licensed medicine that has been proven to be safe and affordable. That it can effectively neutralise saw-scaled viper venoms in models of envenoming highlights the promise of this drug as an early, pre-hospital, therapeutic intervention for life-threatening bites by snakes like the saw-scaled viper," he said. The World Health Organization (WHO)  classifies snakebites as a priority health threat and has set itself the goal of halving the number of deaths and serious injuries by 2030. This is to be achieved on the one hand by research into new drugs, and on the other hand by building better local health facilities that can help those affected more quickly. Read more: Illegal wildlife trade thrives on Facebook, internet forums In the past, they were a common sight at markets and festivals. Today, snake charmers have become rare. Snake charmers worship the blue-skinned Indian god Shiva, who is usually depicted with a king cobra coiled around his neck. People used to visit a snake charmer when they were bitten by a snake. Today, they go to see a doctor, as long as one is available. After months of travelling, a snake charmer returns to his native village Baghpur in India's northern state of Uttar Pradesh. In the village of Baghpur many families are still making a living from their old tradition. However, they have a hard time to make ends meet. The average income is just 200 rupees (about 3 euros) a day - hardly enough to feed a family. While she is munching on her breakfast, this little girl plays with two snakes. Even young children are familiar with the reptiles. Today, fewer and fewer learn the art of snake charming. Many consider it to be outdated and something that does not fit into modern India. Snake charming became officially illegal in 1991. But for many years, the government has not been very strict on enforcing the ban. This is supposed to change and could be the deathblow for the snake charmers of Baghpur. Author: Rodion Ebbighausen (tko)