It's always in the last place you look. A wedding ring flushed down a toilet in 1940 was found in a fruit orchard in Beelitz, about 45 kilometers (28 miles) southwest of Berlin in the northeastern German state of Brandenburg. The ring belonged to Margarete Herzog, who apparently dropped the ring into a toilet in a public bathroom while washing her hands. "She explained to me what happened at the time. She was heartbroken," the woman's daughter, Sonja Güldner, told the Märkische Allgemeine Zeitung, a Brandenburg-based newspaper. Güldner said she never thought the ring would reappear, and her mother died in 1996 at the age of 87 never having seen it again. Beelitz city spokesman Thomas Lähns told the MAZ that hobby metal detectorists came across the ring in a fruit orchard near a water mill in the city. Engraved with initials "H.H." and the date "30.03.1940" (March 30, 1940), the ring was taken to the civil registry office to discover whom the ring belonged. "Based on the few details provided, it was determined that Hans Herzog and Margarete Fechner were the only couple who got married on the day engraved on the jewelry," Lähns said. A happy bride and groom celebrate their romance in a mass wedding ceremony at the Cheong Shim Peace World Center in Gapyeong, a northern city in South Korea. The wedding took place on February 7, before mass cases of the virus were detected in the country. 220 couples in the central Filipino city of Bacolod exchanged their vows and kisses on February 20 in a government-sponsored mass wedding. "It feels different to kiss while wearing masks, but it is required," Groom John Paul told Australia's ABC news. A bride in the Filipino capital of Manila wore a protective mask as she waited to walk down the aisle during a mass wedding at Manila Hotel Tent city. The wedding took place on February 14 - Valentine's Day, a popular date for mass weddings in the country. The Philippines has three confirmed cases of the coronavirus and one person has died so far. One mass wedding in South Korea distributed 30,000 face masks to the crowd, according to French news agency AFP. The wedding took place at the Unification Church, founded by Sun Myung Moon who is revered as a messiah by his followers. Festivals, graduation ceremonies and K-pop concerts have been cancelled over fears big events could lead to virus transmission. While masks were distributed to participants and guests, not everyone chose to wear one. A festive mood filled the venue. Many of the couples' family and friends also attended the ceremony. Mass weddings in South Korea date back to the early 1960s. Author: Melissa Sou-Jie Van Brunnersum DW sends out a daily selection of the day's news and features. Sign up here.