Seismologists in South Korea are concerned about an unusual rash of earthquakes that have shaken the peninsula in recent weeks, with some suggesting that this sudden upsurge in seismic activity might be a precursor to a major — and potentially very destructive — earthquake. The Korean Peninsula is not traditionally considered to be a part of the so-called Ring of Fire, the seismically active fault lines that run around the rim of the Pacific Ocean. However, seismologists are looking at whether shifting tectonic plates might become a new normal for the Koreas. Last week, the Korea Meteorological Administration reported a magnitude 2.8 tremor in Wanju County, in the far southwest of South Korea. Although there was no damage reported from the weak quake and nobody was injured, this is the first time since December 2014 that a tremor with a magnitude above 2 has hit the region. Subscribe to Corona Compact — DW's newsletter tracking coronavirus in Asia Huge upsurge in seismic activity Two days before the Wanju termor, a 3.8-magnitude quake was detected in North Korea. The South's monitoring agency quickly announced it was natural seismic activity to dispel any concerns that it might have been another underground nuclear test conducted by the regime in Pyongyang. The North conducts its atomic tests at its Punggye-ri proving grounds, in the northeast of the country, with the last detonation on September 3, 2017, of a hydrogen bomb that registered as an earthquake with a magnitude of 6.3. But of even deeper concern to the experts have been the more than 400 seismic tremors since April 26 in a single area in South Jeolla Province, in the far south-west of the peninsula. The region has not reported seismic activity since the government first began collating data in 1978. Read more: Geologists find North Korea's nuclear site unusable after collapse Indonesia's Aceh province, which was closest to the earthquake, was the first to be hit by the tsunami shortly after the magnitude 9 quake struck on December 26, 2004. The northwest coast of Sumatra saw waves as high as 30 meters (100 feet) move up to 3.2 kilometers (2 miles) inland. More than 170,000 people died in Indonesia alone. Only larger and sturdier buildings, like this mosque, survived. Fifteen years on, thousands of people gathered close to mass graves for the victims in Banda Aceh to pray and leave flowers. Flags were set at half mask throughout the province and nearby, fishers canceled sea trips in their boats as a mark of respect to the dead. The bodies of many of the victims have never been found but years later, some remains continue to be discovered. More than 8,000 people, including many tourists, were killed when the tsunami slammed into Thailand's southwestern coast. The region is a popular destination for many foreign and local tourists during Christmas. Beach resorts in Phang Nga, Phuket and the Phi Phi islands were some of the hardest-hit areas. Years after the disaster, the bodies of almost 400 victims remain unidentified and unclaimed. On Thursday, hundreds attended a tsunami memorial ceremony at Ban Nam Khem, a small fishing village that lost about half of its population of 5,000 when the waves rolled in. Tourists and locals attended the service at the Ban Nam Khem Tsunami Memorial Park, where they viewed a photo display of victims and laid flowers. Sri Lanka witnessed a death toll of 30,000 from the tsunami including more than 1,500 people who had crowded into this train from Colombo to the southern port city of Galle. Already overcrowded when the first wave struck, many nearby locals seeking sanctuary climbed on top of the carriages, only for the train to flipped off the tracks by subsequent walls of water. Fifteen years on, hundreds of people boarded a train in Sri Lanka's capital to take the same journey. The train to Galle stopped close to the exact location near Peraliya where the original train was overturned and dragged several meters. Several people brought flowers to lay at the tracks. Nearby is the Tsunami Memorial Buddha statue at Peraliya which has become a regular place of remembrance. In India, over 12,400 people lost their lives when the devastating tsunami hit. The town of Nagapattinam (pictured above) was one of the worst-hit coastal areas in the southern Indian province of Tamil Nadu. Thousands of people gathered at memorials in India on the anniversary of the disaster. People scattered flower petals in the Bay of Bengal and observed a minute of silence at the time the tsunami struck the coast fifteen years ago. Author: Nik Martin Experts admit that they do not know for sure what is triggering the activity, but there are some theories as to why it is increasing up and down the peninsula. "We have been monitoring the South Jeolla events closely because they are very unusual and have been happening in a very short space of time," said Hong Tae-kyung, a professor of seismology at Yonsei University in Seoul. "It is also unusual because they are happening in a very small area and they are much deeper than usual," he said, adding that quakes on the peninsula usually occur at a depth of around 10 kilometers (6 miles). These latest tremors are happening 20 kilometers beneath the surface. A blast from the past "We do not know exactly why this is happening, but there are certainly some theories that need to be verified through further research," said Hong. "My personal speculation is that what we are seeing now is a result of the March 2011 Tohoku earthquake in Japan." Also known as the Great East Japan Earthquake, the epicenter of the Tohoku quake struck 70 kilometers off the coast of northeast Japan at a depth of approximately 29 kilometers below the seabed. A megathrust earthquake, it was the most powerful ever recorded in Japan and the fourth largest in the world since 1900. It unlashed powerful tsunami waves that decimated the northern Japanese coastline with heights of more than 40 meters. The waves hit the Fukushima nuclear plant, releasing radiation and adding an extra layer to the disaster. Nearly 19,000 people died or are still listed as missing. Read more: China says North Korea earthquake a 'suspected explosion' Massive quake 'repositioned' the peninsula "When the Tohoku quake happened, that moved the eastern part of the Korean peninsula about 5 centimeters (2 inches) to the east," said Hong. "At the same time, it moved the western part of the peninsula around 2 centimeters to the east, which means the quake stretched the crust of the peninsula by about 3 centimeters." There was renewed seismic activity on the Korean peninsula in the months and years after the Tohoku tragedy, Professor Hong said, including a 5.8 tremor in 2016 that was the largest ever recorded in Korea. But deeper tectonic plate activity was relatively quiet until earlier this year. Yoshiaki Hisada, a professor at Japan's Kogakuin University focusing on earthquake impact said, historically, the Korean Peninsula has seen little significant seismic activity, and the recent increase in quakes is cause for concern. "Earthquakes can come and go in areas over a long span of time and might disappear altogether for many years in some parts of the world, only to come back again later," he said. "The Earth is made up of plates that are always moving, so stresses increase and decrease, but increasing frequency of movements is something that needs to be monitored very carefully. That is a warning sign." Read more: Earthquake detected close to North Korea's nuclear test site possibly 'man-made' Monitoring the ground The Korea Meteorological Administration has installed a number of observation facilities in South Jeolla to collect seismic data and, in a worst-case scenario, issue alerts. Professor Hong says that while there have been no truly devastating earthquakes in a century, historical records show that the peninsula is not completely immune to a major tremor that could cause a significant amount of damage and loss of life. "Literature that survives from the Joseon Dynasty, which ran for a little over 500 years until 1897, does recount stories of earthquakes and damage to communities on the peninsula," he said. "From what the researchers can tell, it would appear that they experienced quakes of a magnitude as high as 7, and if that happened in the past, it is, of course, possible that something similar could happen once again." "I would say that as a result of the Tohoku earthquake, there is an increased possibility that Korea might experience a major tremor. We need to be vigilant." An avalanche buried the Riopiano hotel (bottom right), the only one in the Gran Sasso National Park, with up to 30 guests and staff members inside. Despite efforts to rescue survivors, emergency services responding to the disaster reported no signs of life in the three-storey building. It took more than two hours for rescue teams to reach the buried hotel. Up to four meters of snow blocked the way, forcing fire fighters and civil protection personnel to figure out different ways through. First responders traveled by helipcopter, while others made the journey overland using cross-country skis. The force of the avalanche moved parts of the hotel about ten meters (33 feet) from where it originally stood. After breaking through the wall of snow and entering the hotel, rescuers warned that there could be "many dead." At least three bodies have been pulled out. Two survivors escaped when they left the building minutes before the avalanche. While emergency services created camps to base their search operations, heavy snow continued to fall. A national fire rescue spokesman told DW that they would continue to move forward with their operations, despite the weather. Other parts of the region experienced up to four meters of snow, knocking down powerlines and leaving thousands of people without heat or light. In other parts of the Abruzzo region and its surrounding areas in Marche and Lazio, authorities worked together to rescue isolated individuals, trapped in their homes due to the snow. In Campotosto, the government deployed the military to assist with the evacuation of certain houses. Rescue efforts were intensified in the wake of four powerful earthquakes that shook the region. In Amatrice and nearby areas, where nearly 300 people were killed in a devastating earthquake in August, heavy snow and earthquakes continued to unsetlle the ruined village. Former residents, housed in temporary shelters nearby, have considered vacating for good due to the harsh winter and tremors that continue to plague the area. Author: Lewis Sanders IV