Reports that the new coronavirus is disproportionately killing African Americans in the United States are no surprise to the country's public health researchers. Numerous examples, from polluted water in Flint, Michigan, to parasites like hookworm in Alabama, have long shown that African Americans are more exposed to environmental dangers and ill-health than white Americans. Read more: How austerity poisoned the people of Flint, Michigan But a study into one of the most enduring of these threats — lead poisoning among children —provides a new measure of what many say is the toxic effect of systematic racism in the US. There is no safe level of lead in the blood, which means even trace amounts can damage brain cells. But it is particularly dangerous for children in their pre-school years, when it can disrupt brain development. Overall, the US Centers for Disease Control (CDC) estimates that around 2.5% of children aged between 0 and six in the country have an "elevated blood lead level". Read more:  UK's 'Birdgirl' a voice for equality and against racism in conservation Using publicly available data collected by the CDC from a representative sample of thousands of children aged one to five over an 11-year period, thestudy, published in February by the International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health, found that black children living below the poverty line are twice as likely to have elevated levels of lead in their blood than poor white or Hispanic children. The CDC did not offer a comment on the new study, on the grounds that it was not involved in writing it. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3aycL The danger of being African American Statistically, the increased risk of lead poisoning associated with being black persists even when you correct for all other factors, from poverty to education levels to the presence of smokers in the home, to quality of housing. "A lot of people had been saying: 'oh black children are just more at risk because they're more likely to be poor,'" said study co-author Deniz "Dersim" Yeter, an independent academic and undergraduate nursing student in Kansas. "Yeah, poverty's a problem, but it's nothing compared to being a black child in America." Yeter was "astounded" by the results of their three-year analysis. "I knew it was bad, but I was expecting something like a marginal increase, something statistically significant, but ... not two to six times higher," they told DW. "That is obscene." Read more: Investigating environmental racism The study includes some surprising conclusions: The social condition of being African American is a bigger risk than living in an old house. In other words, black children living in buildings built between 1950-1977 are six times more likely to have elevated levels of lead in their blood than white children living in a building of that era. African Americans are often more exposed to environmental dangers, such as water pollution in Flint, Michigan That date is important. The US began putting restrictions on the lead content of paint in 1977. But leaded paint was never systematically removed from old buildings, and the US Department of Housing estimates that over 3.6 million homes housing children still contain lead hazards. "It's so bad," Yeter said. "It deteriorates, it's little pieces of dust, you inhale it, kids touch stuff, touch their mouths, absorb it. [Before the 1950s] it used to be so bad that kids would go into seizures, go to the hospital and die, because there was so much lead in their blood." Read more: The global injustice of the climate crisis The consequences of 'redlining' The figures Yeter unearthed aren't surprising to community workers in areas where lead poisoning is just one of many health hazards that African Americans face. "You just have look around you," said Kinzer Pointer, pastor and health campaigner in an overwhelmingly African-American community in Buffalo, New York, a city where most of the housing is older than 1978 and 40% of children tested in 2016 had an elevated blood lead level. Buffalo is a prime example of the effects of "redlining" — the exclusion of minorities in the US from everything from insurance, to grocery stores — which offers a clue to how racism leads to poor health. Pointer said that in the neighborhood he serves, the nearest supermarket selling fresh fruit and vegetables is over five miles away, and 60% of people don't own their own transport. "People live on fast food," he said. African Americans face higher rates of eviction than other groups Redlining also extends to mortgages and home ownership — the US census shows that only around 42% of African Americans own their homes, compared to 68% of white Americans. Rahwa Ghirmatzion, director of People United for Sustainable Housing in Buffalo, explained that when renters receive a letter from health authorities warning their building is contaminated, "the expectation is for them to either move … or get their landlord to remediate the issue." Confronting your landlord can be more fraught for black people: A 2012 study in the American Journal of Sociology showed that African Americans face disproportionately higher eviction rates than whites in the same income brackets. And moving voluntarily may mean breaking a lease and losing a deposit, making it still harder to afford a lead-free home. Read more: Climate change leads to more violence against women, girls The 'color-blind' failure David Rosner, co-author of the 2014 book Lead Wars, which traces the post-war history of lead poisoning, said racism has always been part of why lead poisoning has been tolerated. As he explained, after the war, the Lead Industries Association even tried to blame black parents for letting their children eat paint: One 1956 letter showed the LIA arguing to government that lead poisoning was a problem of "educating the parents, but most of the cases are in Negro and Puerto Rican families, and how does one tackle that job?" With their study, Yeter wants to show that hidden, structural racism can be just as dangerous, and that "color-blind" public health screening only exacerbates the problem. Currently, blood lead screening is recommended (by organizations like the American Academy of Pediatrics) when children live in old buildings or belong to a certain economic class. Yeter says not addressing race too, blinds authorities to the endemic discrimination. "If you're ignoring black race as a leading risk factor — you're leaving so many black kids at far greater risk out of the local, state, and federal response." He added: "To act like there's no politics behind people being at risk, or what causes that, or how to solve that... it's political!" Asbestos is a collective term for various naturally occurring silicate minerals. These include grunerite, anthophyllite, actinolite and chrysotil. The fibrous material was popular both in construction and industry because of its durability, fire resistance and because it could be easily processed in cement. Visible here are asbestos' signature tiny fibers, some of which are only three micrometers thick. Here is a sample of a chrysotile. These fibers are not soluble and could therefore remain in the lungs for a very long time. They can still cause lung cancer decades after you've inhaled them. Corrugated asbestos must not be sawed, cut, drilled, ground up or broken. As long as it's not touched, there is no danger of fibers being released into the air. But even cleaning is taboo. Anyone who tries to remove the moss with a high-pressure cleaner would be committing crimes against the environment and endangering their own health. A flower box made of fiber cement, also called Eternit or asbestos cement. Here cement and asbestos combine to form a resistant but toxic building material. This box may continue to be used. However, when working with a shovel or a rake, one should be careful not to scratch the container. If you want to get rid of it, you have to dispose of it as hazardous waste. Pros repaired this clogged pipe. If you ever have drain problems with asbestos cement pipes, don't ask for a simple plumber. In a case like this, strict asbestos removal regulations need to be observed — it's time to call a specialist! Such "Floor-Flex" panels can be found in many homes today. Almost all of them contain asbestos. Here, too, safety can only be guaranteed by a laboratory test. So don't just rip the panels out and toss them in the trash. Often such floor coverings are also fastened with adhesives containing asbestos. Caution: don't try to get rid of the glue by yourself! There are often materials containing asbestos hidden under old floor coverings. If you have removed "Floor Flex" panels and find black, bituminous adhesive, take special care. The glue almost certainly also contains asbestos. Never sand it down on your own! Here the author of this gallery during the renovation of his house. A floor and ceiling had to be removed entirely because the beams were rotten. Was there any asbestos in the dusty air? It's better not to ask! Until 1989, car brake linings still contained asbestos - in high concentrations. It's possible that some of these brake pads are still in use in old cars today. Car mechanics who change brake linings and then clean the brakes with air pressure are particularly at risk. Many fibres get into the air in the workshop, which is a life-threatening hazard. Probably a case for hazardous waste. Under no circumstances should you use an older hairdryer, not even one from the 1970s. What does a hair dryer have to do with asbestos? The material is extremely heat resistant and was therefore often used as thermal insulation in the manufacturing of these ancient devices. The design may be fashionable again, but if you want to eat toast prepared by such an elegant toaster, you'd better go for a new one with a retro look. This will ensure that the supports for the heating wires are not made of asbestos. A device like this shouldn't even have a spot in your antiques cabinet. Author: Fabian Schmidt