Considered by many to be a symbol of European integration, the European Central Bank (ECB) recently announced it would pursue the possibility of issuing an electronic form of the euro, the official currency of 19 of the European Union's 27 members. A digital euro "would have pervasive effects on society as a whole," wrote the authors of "Report on a digital euro," an analysis of the subject from the European Central Bank released on October 2. Cash currently remains the most common way of making small retail payments, accounting for 73% of all physical retail payments in the euro area in 2019, ECB President Christine Lagarde said in a speech in September, citing a forthcoming ECB study. "But almost half of consumers said they prefer to pay digitally, and this has increased further during the pandemic," she continued. A decline in the use of cash would make people and businesses in the euro area dependent on other, private forms of payment, the authors of the digital euro report concluded, a trend that has potential for serious and wide-reaching consequences if left to develop unchecked. Read more: Africa's quiet cryptocurrency revolution Countries like China and Sweden are already relatively far along in developing digital sovereign currencies, and today privately run payment and money systems abound online. "Looking ahead, we need to be ready to introduce a digital euro, shall the need arise," Lagarde said in the report. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Mlue Some Europeans might be picturing the countless times they've used their online bank account to complete a digital transaction and scratching their heads at the idea of a digital euro. What would the difference be? "The main difference would be that such a transfer would be in central bank money, the safest means of payment," Ulrich Bindseil, director general for market infrastructures and payments at the ECB, told DW. "It would be as safe as cash — but digital. Currently, electronic transfers between citizens' deposits take place in so-called commercial bank money." Stressing this last point, professor of economics at the University of Hohenheim Michael Evers emphasized the significance of a digital, central bank currency that can be used for direct, instant, peer-to-peer payments, just like physical cash. Read more: The story of East Germany's central bank "This should be game changing as this implies that the ECB would be directly governing monetary payments," he told DW. "The credibility of the payment system then depends on trust in the ECB and no longer in banks or the financial system." Today there are many digital payment solutions available to anyone looking to buy or sell, from online transfers through commercial banks to transactions through third-party services like PayPal to cryptocurrencies like bitcoin that allow for anonymous, non-traceable digital payment transactions. But this embarrassment of choice is problematic for central banks for several reasons. For one, the report says, a stark reduction in the use of physical cash would cause issues for the "unbanked" in the euro area, vulnerable groups of society that depend on the use of physical cash, or for those who are unfamiliar with technology or prefer not to use it. There's also the cost factor to consider. "The maintenance costs of the cash infrastructure relative to the number of cash transactions might increase beyond acceptable limits and could accelerate the decline in the availability and acceptance of cash," the authors of the report wrote. Essentially, if people stop using cash, it could become too expensive to print and distribute. Read more: EU minting more coins for a cashless world The ECB also has its mandate to fulfill. The bank is tasked with maintaining price stability in the euro area by setting interest rates and other monetary policy measures. But the growing use of alternative currencies and payment systems could pose a threat. "The ECB is not the player that is proactively shaping the future payment system of their own choice," Evers said. "Quite the contrary, it is responding to private financial innovation that is lowering transaction costs and facilitating cashless instant payment systems." Evers points to Libra, a payment system in development at Facebook, which the social media company wants to roll out for use by some 2 billion Facebook users worldwide. "Such a private payment system would undermine any sovereign monetary authority and pose a true threat on effective monetary policy transmission," he said. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3Rl7W Concern over "extreme events that could hinder the provision of payment services" is another ground for having a digital euro at the ready. Should an event prevent the use of standard payment methods, like cash or electronic bank transfers, the bank wants a digital currency system in place to keep the financial system running. The coronavirus pandemic is the perfect example. "The COVID-19 crisis induced a shift in payment habits toward contactless payments and e-commerce," the report said. Many initially feared the virus could be spread via cash and coins, and many economies, even cash-loving Germany, accelerated the transition to contactless payments as the pandemic took hold. The weeks-long lockdowns around Europe that kept people largely confined to their homes also saw many turn to e-commerce out of necessity. Extreme events could also include cyberattacks and natural disasters, both growing threats in a world marked by digitalization and climate change. Power outages that prevent cash withdrawals or the use of online banking could cause serious harm to the functioning of the financial system. "While cash remains the safest contingency solution for payments at the POS [point of sales] in the event of cyber incidents and other extreme events, the digital euro, as an alternative electronic means of payment, could be used in physical shops also," the authors wrote. What exactly a digital euro would look like, and how it would be adopted, are as of yet unknown. But a few general criteria are clear: A digital euro should be capable of offline functionality in the event of extreme events, the report said. It should be capable of providing the efficiency and anonymity of cash and be free of charge to use. And an important point for the digital skeptics, the digital euro would be offered alongside, not instead of, cash. "A digital euro would have to take into account people's individual rights, such as the right to privacy," the ECB's Binseil said, noting challenges that could lie ahead. "When we develop functional and technological designs we will have to tackle these issues." The ECB also faces the hurdle of developing a product that revolutionizes the financial system without upending it. Read more: German man forgets €20,000 cash on car roof "A digital euro could hamper the activity of banks or generate instability in times of financial stress," Binseil added. "But a properly designed digital euro can address these risks." In the long term, Evers says the competition between central bank digital currencies and other private money and payment networks — as opposed to physical versus digital cash — is the real fight to watch. "New currency areas might not be determined through national borders or economic unions like EMU [The Economic and Monetary Union of the European Union], but through social networks," or other commonalities, Evers said. The ECB report stresses that development is in its initial stages and that the next step is to open a dialogue with all stakeholders, including euro area citizens. A public consultation is to begin on October 12. A German saying actually recommends avoiding talk of money: "Über Geld spricht man nicht." Yet there are countless ways to avoid the taboo — using slang. If the Inuit mythically have 50 words for snow, the German expressions for cash are probably countless. One word is even related to snow: "Flocken," or flakes. "Der Schornstein muss rauchen" — the chimney has to smoke — was an 18th-century German idiom reminding that money is needed to keep the house warm. There are several German terms for money related to combustible materials. "Kohle" is one of those most commonly used, along with "Asche," ashes. Coal was a scarce commodity during war times and became an informal means of payment. The Yiddish word "kis," which means purse, could be mistaken with the German word "Kies" — small stones. That could explain why Kies became synonymous with coins, along with "Schotter," another word for broken stones, and simply "Steine" — stones. Let gravel jangle in your pocket next time you're broke, and see how it feels. "Knete" is modeling clay, but it can also translate as dough. "Ohne Knete, keine Fete" — no party without dough. It appeared as a German slang word fairly recently in the 1970s, perhaps inspired by its long established use among students in English: A Yale fraternity publication already printed the term in 1851, mentioning "sufficient dough" as a way of avoiding "society's embarrassments." There's a German saying, "Ohne Moos, nix los!" (Nothing happens without moss.) One might think this word became slang for money because of the dense green texture of these plants growing in shady locations: It's a metaphor which could work well for green US dollars. But the word actually derives from the Hebrew word for coins, "ma'oth." Maybe the slang word "Moos" got confused with the similar-sounding word "Maus" — mouse — at some point. Pluralize that and it becomes "Mäuse." Yes, mice: A cute way to refer to cash in Germany. What do frogs have in common with money? The term "Kröten" was already in use in the 19th century to designate small change. It sounds a bit like "Groschen" and "Groten," coins from the Middle Ages. The unsightly appearance of the creature could explain it referring to a miserable sum. If the English say "from rags to riches," the Germans use those rags to show how rich they are: The word "Lappen" refers to those larger bills you can demonstratively slap on the counter. Lappen is also a slang word for a driver's license. The tallest person on Earth can probably get rich by exploiting his unusual height, but in German, a "Riesen" also means one thousand (insert currency here). Its equivalent in English is a grand. The term "Pinke" or doubled up as "Pinkepinke" derives from the Judeo-Aramaic language: Pinka was used in Slavic languages to refer to the "box for money paid by card-players to the innkeeper." A somewhat archaic term, it cannot be directly translated, but just like "cha-ching," it sounds like coins falling — hopefully in your own cash box. Author: Elizabeth Grenier