The World Health Organization (WHO) said Monday its "best estimates" suggest 1 in 10 people worldwide may have been infected by the coronavirus. The figure represents more than 20 times the number of confirmed cases, which currently stands at more than 35 million. "Our current best estimates tell us about 10% of the global population may have been infected by this virus," said Mike Ryan, the head of emergency operations at the WHO. "It varies depending on country, it varies from urban to rural, it varies depending on groups. But what it does mean is that the vast majority of the world remains at risk," Ryan continued. "We are now heading into a difficult period. The disease continues to spread." Ryan made the comments as he addressed the WHO's 34-member executive board focusing on COVID-19. He told the board that outbreaks were surging in parts of southeast Asia and that infections were on the rise in parts of Europe and the eastern Mediterranean region. Officials in Europe fear a repeat of the harrowing scenes witnessed in hospitals across the continent in the spring, when the virus swamped intensive care units in countries like Italy and Spain. Already in some parts of Spain, hospitals are struggling with an influx of virus patients once more. Meanwhile, Russia on Monday recorded a rise in cases close to the maximum level seen in May, but it has stopped short of reimposing strict lockdown measures. India is currently registering the highest number of daily cases globally, with 75,829 confirmed infections in the past 24 hours, a day after crossing 100,000 total fatalities. The 34-year-old, best known for starring as sparkly vampire Edward Cullen in Twilight, tested positive for COVID-19, pausing the production of his film The Batman just three days after it resumed. Pattinson, who also played Cedric Diggory in the film adaptation of Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, took on his latest role after Ben Affleck stepped down last year. The wrestler-turned-movie star has become one of the latest A-List celebrities to contract COVID-19. In a video on Instagram, Johnson revealed that he, his wife and two young daughters have tested positive — adding that he'd had "a rough go" with symptoms. He also urged for people to stop "politicizing" the pandemic and to "wear your mask." The Brazilian football icon is one of three Paris Saint-Germain players to contract the virus, news agency AFP reported September 2. The outbreak at the club is believed to be linked to a holiday trip the team took to the Spanish island of Ibiza. Neymar later posted a picture on Instagram with his son, who also reportedly tested positive, reading: "Thank you for your messages. We're all fine!" Running legend Usain Bolt tested positive just days after holding a party to celebrate his 34th birthday in late August. The record-holder for the 100-meter and 200-meter sprints said he'd gone into quarantine but that he wasn't exhibiting symptoms. Videos of Bolt's outdoor birthday party showed guests not wearing masks during the celebration. The Spanish actor had an unwelcome surprise for his 60th birthday in mid-August after testing positive for the coronavirus. Banderas said he spent his birthday in isolation and that he was "more tired than usual" but "hoping to recover as soon as possible." The Bollywood movie legend revealed in July that he'd tested positive for the virus and spent three weeks in the hospital before being discharged in early August. His son Abhishek, actress daughter-in-law Aishwarya Rai and granddaughter Aaradhya also contracted the virus. Bachchan's son remains in hospital. Actor Tom Hanks and his wife, the actor and singer Rita Wilson, were among the first celebrities to announce they'd contracted the virus. The couple tested positive for the virus in mid-March while in Australia. After recovering and returning to the United States, Hanks has advocated for people to do their part to slow the spread of the disease. jsi/aw (Reuters, AP)  