The lipstick Bertica Cabrera Morris wears matches her well-pedicured red toenails, which, visible in her open leather sandals, form a striking contrast to the green, green grass of her lawn in Orlando, Florida. Cabrera Morris, a member of the advisory board of the campaign organization Latinos for Trump, is busy planting signs in support of the president in the garden in front of the big brick house. Her blond hair is fluttering gently in the warm humid air. There is a lustrous sheen on the two big SUVs standing in the driveway. Read more: The final debate between Trump and Biden — as it happened Cabrera Morris, who was a surrogate for Donald Trump's 2016 campaign, has lived in the United States for over 50 years. She was 14 when she fled her home in Cuba — which lies just under 170 kilometers (90 nautical miles) across the Straits of Florida from Key West — with her mother. "They took everything away from us," she said. My father was put in a work camp because he didn't want to give in to the socialists." That was 1967, eight years after the revolution led by Fidel Castro. The property of international companies and rich Cubans was expropriated. Read more: DW fact-checks the debate between Donald Trump and Joe Biden As the election nears, Cabrera Morris, who runs a business and political consultancy, said she was doing everything she could to ensure that Trump remains in the White House for another four years — and to prevent Joe Biden and Kamala Harris from assuming the presidency and vice presidency, respectively. Cabrera Morris acknowledges that neither former Vice President Biden nor Senator Harris is a socialist. But, she said, she believes that many Democrats would take the country in that direction — people such as the 31-year-old first-term congressional representative from New York, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, or Bernie Sanders, who has served in Congress since 1991 and is currently the junior senator from Vermont. Read more: Colorado Trump fans embrace case of man facing deportation The arguments that Cabrera Morris makes are common among the Cubans who left for the United States after the revolution and their descendants. Cabrera Morris and her mother initially fled to Spain. Her mother was then able to apply for green cards, which enabled them to enter the United States legally. "I believe in the American Dream," Cabrera Morris said. "They gave it to me." Read more: Was the final US presidential debate 'a win for Trump'? And Cabrera Morris stresses that she and her mother entered the United States legally. She does not believe that people who have been displaced from Latin American countries such as Honduras or Guatemala should be allowed into the United States — even if those people are seeking refuge because they fear losing their lives, and not just their property. "We can be an example," she said. "We can't be the safeguard of the world." Read more: Trump, Biden clash on coronavirus, race and health care Trump's restrictive immigration stance appeals to Cabrera Morris, as do the policies that enable entrepreneurs such as herself and her husband to remain prosperous. She is not disturbed by the language Trump frequently uses to describe people from Latin America. "If he criticizes Mexican drug dealers, he doesn't criticize the Mexican people," she said. "He just wants to stop criminals." The opulent home she shares with her husband has a tropical touch typical to the region Security is also an important topic for Cabrera Morris — both at the borders and within the United States. She considers Trump the best man for the job. "Kamala Harris wants to defund the police," she said. "I want my children and grandchildren to live in safety." Moreover, Cabrera Morris blames Trump's opponents for the violence in cities such as Portland, Oregon, where federal agents were deployed to put down protests against institutional racism. or Kenosha, Wisconsin, where confrontations between armed white supremacist groups and people demonstrating against police brutality led to two people being killed by a Trump supporter in the streets. Read more: Colorado Trump fans embrace case of man facing deportation Cabrera Morris loves the United States. She said she was fighting for the lifestyle that she and her mother worked hard to achieve. "We didn't have anything in the beginning," she said. "My mother worked for 65 cents an hour to give me a future." Her garden is a small piece of paradise, a reminder of Cuba. Bananas hang between the thick leaves, lush flower beds surround the patio with its inviting various outdoor seating areas, and there are abundant tangles of Spanish moss growing wild. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3kKFM She frequently organizes fundraisers and other events here to support politicians. "I helped Marco Rubio get elected," she said, referring to the Republican senator from Florida, who won his open seat in 2010. The United States has been her home for half a century. There is no going back for her. And yet her voice quivers when she speaks about the night skies over Cuba and the scents — and the sounds — of the evenings. At Christmas she permits herself a little expedition into the past. She calls it her Cuba day: a day when her family eats traditional roast pork with rice and beans and goes to midnight mass. Trump addressed a rally near Orlando shortly after ending his treatment for COVID-19 "I don't want to live through what I went through again," Cabrera Morris said while looking at the lake by the house and the golf club on the other side, which was established in 1911. She and her husband have been members for years. What in the world has happened to political debate culture in the US, asks Czech caricaturist Marian Kamensky — along with the rest of the world. The first confrontation on TV between the presidential hopefuls degenerated into a mud fight. Instead of trading arguments, they hurled insults at each other. The second debate on October 22 has stricter rules, including muted mics to stop interruptions. Biden's running mate, Kamala Harris, has mentioned "dirty tactics" employed by the current president. The Democrats feel like they're navigating difficult terrain, points out German caricaturist Jens Kricke. Donald Trump, the incumbent, doesn't seem to care. He seems aloof, like a wicked witch in a fairy tale. This president adores superlatives, claiming "I am the least racist person you've ever seen," "No one has more respect for women than I do," or "I understand more about money than anybody else." And, of course, he believes the US has never had a better president. In this sketch by Martin Erl, Trump praises a photographer as "one of the best in the world." Biden is a "sleepy old man" and a "puppet of the radical left," says Trump, who constantly cut off his opponent in the first debate. The latter responded by calling Trump a racist, liar, clown and the "worst president America has ever had." Commentators called it one of the worst debates America has ever seen. Italian artist Christi couldn't agree more. Many Africans are also astonished at Trump's not very statesmanlike behavior. Cartoonist Damien Glez from Burkina Faso sees the president as a little brat who wants to get his way, no matter the cost. What doesn't fit is made to fit — and with force. One hopes that the president isn't pounding the nuclear button. The first Japanese Godzilla movie hit the screen in 1954. Wherever the giant lizard goes, it leaves a path of destruction. For cartoon artist Takeshi Kishino to blow the truculent US president up into a gigantic Godzilla monster is revealing. Can Joe Biden stand a chance against this Trumpzilla? Donald Trump enjoys the company of rulers who aren't terribly concerned about democratic norms: Putin, Erdogan and North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un. Dutch cartoonist Tjeerd Royaards feels that what these politicians have in common is an archetypical rivaling behavior of self-designated alpha-males. Trump calls Joe Biden, on the other hand, a feeble old man – i.e., for him, not a serious opponent. Trump has said the election will see rampant voter fraud and ballots in wastebaskets with his name on them. For months on end, the US president has attacked mail-in voting and even cut short funds for the postal service. Marian Kamensky encapsulates the situation here. Due to the risks posed by the coronavirus pandemic, many Democrats — and not only them — want to cast their ballots by mail. In his tirades against the postal service, the president has neglected to mention that he himself has voted by mail on multiple occasions. And even though the FBI certifies that there is no voter fraud in the US, Trump insists that America is threatened by "the most rigged election in history." If needed, he can get help from abroad, says Greek caricaturist Kostas Koufogiorgos. Trump supporters aren't just found in the US, but also in other countries. In the name of caricaturists around the globe, Mark Lynch of Australia definitely wants the US president to have a second term. "We need our buddy" and "We love the Twitter chief," demonstrators chant — because no other politician offers cartoonists as much raw material as the current occupant of the White House. Trump has repeatedly made it clear that he wants to remain in the White House. Should he lose the election, he has not expressly agreed to a peaceful transition, saying only: "Well, we'll see what happens." He's already called on his base to protest should he not be reelected. Trump has also questioned the American constitution and its rules prohibiting a third term. Is he thinking of a lifelong presidency? The whole Trump family often turns up at campaign rallies, including the president's youngest son, Barron — which might have triggered German cartoonist Christiane Pfohlmann's vision of the birth of a monarchy in the United States. Author: Suzanne Cords   This article was translated from German by JG.