The US government's top infectious disease expert Anthony Fauci has said the event held at the White House Rose Garden on September 26 was a "superspreader" event that led to multiple people, including President Donald Trump, being infected. "I think the data speak for themselves. We had a superspreader event in the White House," Fauci told CBS News Radio. "And it was in a situation where people were crowded together and were not wearing masks," he added. Asked about the president's praise for an experimental COVID-19 treatment he received as "a cure," Fauci said calling it such would be misleading as it still hasn't been proven. "We don't have any indication – I think you really have to depend on what you mean by a cure because that's the word that leads to a lot of confusion," he said. Read more: Coronavirus trend: The pandemic is far from over US President Donald Trump announced he will give a public speech at the White House on Saturday for the first time since testing positive for the coronavirus. The crowd will be on the South Lawn, while Trump will speak from a White house balcony. All attendees will be required to wear masks and their temperatures will be checked, according to a senior administration official. Trump will also head back to the campaign trail next week. He has also announced that he will hold a rally in Florida on Monday, despite widespread concerns that he may not be fully recovered from his coronavirus infection and therefore still be contagious. Trump's Democratic challenger, Joe Biden, has criticized the president's behavior as "reckless." Read more: Trump's coronavirus treatment was based on fetal tissue research "His reckless personal conduct since his diagnosis, the destabilizing effect it's having on our government, is unconscionable," Biden said. The US president also said he has stopped taking medication to combat COVID-19. "Right now, I'm medication free. I'm not taking any medications as of, you know, probably eight hours ago," Trump told Fox News on Friday night. Canada is at a "tipping point' in the pandemic, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said Friday, adding that the second wave of the coronavirus was "really frustrating." He urged people to avoid large gatherings over the weekend for Thanksgiving, a major Canadian holiday. "We are at a tipping point in this pandemic. Not only is the second wave underway, [but] yesterday we hit the highest daily record for cases, well above what we saw this spring," Trudeau told a news conference. "I know this is discouraging... the increase in new cases is putting enormous pressure on hospitals and health care workers, who are more and more swamped," he said. Latin America and the Caribbean might see a region-wide 7.9% drop in GDP due to the pandemic. "Our region is suffering the worst economic and health impacts of COVID-19 of anywhere in the world," said Carlos Felipe Jaramillo, the regional vice president of the World Bank. A former White House staffer, Hope Hicks had returned recently to help Trump prepare for the first presidential debate against Joe Biden. She was the first person in his surroundings to test positive for COVID-19, just hours before the president confirmed his infection. Given her proximity to Trump, it was no surprise that first lady of the US also tested positive for coronavirus following Trump's infection. She received medical assistance at the White House and did not require hospitalization at Walter Reed Medical Center. Nicholas Luna tested positive for COVID-19 soon after Trump did. As personal assistant, his job is to accompany Trump day and night. His job puts him in as close proximity to the president as the first lady. Trump's campaign manager, Bill Stepien, also tested positive for COVID-19 on the same day the president did. His diagnosis dealt a blow to a campaign he had just recently begun to head, after the departure of embattled former campaign manager Brad Parscale. Republican National Committee chair Ronna McDaniel tested positive for coronavirus soon after the president and went into quarantine at her home in Michigan. Like Bill Stepien, she plays a key role in Trump's campaign and was in close contact with him in recent weeks. Adviser Kellyanne Conway tested positive for the virus on the same day as Trump. Although she officially left the White House weeks earlier — citing the need to spend more time with her family — she attended Trump's White House ceremony to announce Amy Coney Barrett's nomination to the Supreme Court. Former New Jersey Governor Chris Christie announced that he would check himself into a hospital because of a COVID-19 infection the day after Trump's positive test. Christie had attended an event at the White House for Supreme Court Justice nominee Amy Coney Barrett, where he was seen without a mask and not socially distancing. Wisconsin Republican Senator Ron Johnson said he tested positive for COVID one day after Trump's positive test. A close ally of the president, Johnson was also at the event for Supreme Court justice nominee Amy Coney Barrett. North Carolina Republican Senator Thom Tillis said he tested positive for coronavirus a day after the president did. He, too, had attended the White House event for Supreme Court justice nominee Amy Coney Barrett. Tillis, who is facing reelection this year, is a member of the Justice Committee that would process the nomination. White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany said she tested positive for COVID-19 three days after the president's positive test. She indicated that she experienced no symptoms and said she would quarantine while continuing to work from home. She gave her last appearance to reporters, without a mask, hours before her positive test results came back. Utah Republican Senator Mike Lee said he tested positive for coronavirus on the same day as Trump. He was also one of several people who attended the White House event for Trump's Supreme Court justice nominee. Tillis, a staunch Trump ally, is also a member of the Justice Committee that would process the nomination. Stephen Miller, a senior policy adviser to Trump and one of his inner circle, announced he'd tested positive for COVID-19 four days after the president. In a statement, he said he'd been self-isolating and testing negative until that point. The White House said Miller is "doing well" and quarantining. Author: Jenipher Camino Gonzalez Cologne, in western Germany, passed a key threshold in the number of coronavirus infections on Saturday, recording more than 50 infections per 100,000 inhabitants. The city joins Frankfurt and Berlin, and has introduced more measures to combat the disease. Read more: Cologne exceeds key coronavirus threshold, joining Berlin and Frankfurt Germany's has seen another spike in cases, with 4,721 new cases reported on Saturday morning by health authorities. France has recorded a daily record of over 20,000 new coronavirus infections, with the country's health minister warning of the deteriorating situation. Authorities have declared the highest coronavirus warning level for four new cities; Lyon, Lille, Grenoble and Saint-Etienne. The warning is already in place for Paris, Marseilles and the French overseas territory of Guadeloupe. In Italy, the daily infections hit 5,372, the highest since late March when the country was the epicenter of the pandemic. The latest figure is also close to the all-time daily record of 6,557 infections, reported on March 21. Overall cases in Italy have now reached 343,770, while the total death toll increased by 28 to reach 36,111, authorities said. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3jiJr Prime Minister Boris Johnson will inform the UK parliament of the government's potential new lockdown restrictions next week. A survey showed that the average daily number of coronavirus cases in England has doubled in a week. The UK also has the highest death toll in Europe, with 42,679 people in the country losing their lives to COVID-19. The World Health Organization has called on European governments to take decisive action to curb the second wave of infection. Europe surpassed 100,000 daily infections for the first time on Thursday. "There are no new answers. We know what we need to do," WHO's emergencies chief Dr. Michael Ryan said at a news briefing in Geneva. "It is though sad to see many countries in Europe experiencing a rapid rise in cases and governments do have to take decisive action in order to try and shut down transmission." Read more: COVID-19: New lockdown for Berlin's nightlife Poland reported a record 5,300 new coronavirus infections on Saturday, according to the country's Health Ministry. The numbers were released as new rules on wearing masks outside at all times came into effect. Poland has recorded 121,638 cases of coronavirus, and 2,972 deaths. The Czech Republic has said another lockdown could be on the way as COVID-19 cases spiked for a record fourth day in a row. The country registered 8,618 new cases on Friday, up from 5,394 cases the previous day, bringing the total tally to 109,374 cases with 905 deaths. Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babis warned: "Either we will all comply with the safety measures, or we will have to adopt further restrictions fast, and we can't rule out a lockdown." The numbers of coronavirus cases in Russia rose by 12,846 on Saturday, a new daily record since the start of the outbreak earlier this year. The overall total number of infections stands at 1,285,084, while the country's coronavirus crisis center has confirmed an additional 197 deaths, bringing the official death toll to 22,454. North Korea has held its military parade marking the 75th anniversary of the country's ruling party, despite the coronavirus pandemic. The streets of Pyongyang saw the North's latest and most advanced weapons, with South Korea's unification ministry anticipating a "large-scale parade." North Korea closed its borders eight months ago to protect itself from the virus. It has still not confirmed a single case of infection. Indonesia has reported 4,294 new coronavirus infections, to bring the total tally of 328,952, according to government data. Officials said 88 more people have died from the virus, bringing the total number of COVID-19 deaths to 11,765. Confirmed coronavirus cases in India have neared 7 million, with another 73,272 infections reported in the past 24 hours. The country's Health Ministry said another 926 people had died from the virus over the past 24 hours, taking total fatalities to 107,416. ed, adi/cmk (AP, AFP, Reuters, dpa) 