The Central Election Commission of Kyrgyzstan declared the results of the weekend's parliamentary election invalid on Tuesday, following mass overnight protests in the capital Bishkek and other cities. The decision was made in order to "avoid tension" in the country, the head of the Commission Nurzhan Shaildabekova told the Interfax news agency. Opposition supporters stormed government buildings overnight and demanded a new election, after parties close to pro-Russian President Sooronbai Jeenbekov cleared up according to the official results. Hundreds were injured and one killed during violent clashes with police, who used teargas, grenades and water cannons to disperse protesters. Moscow's embassy in Bishkek on Tuesday called for a "legal solution" to the crisis. "Ensuring the safety of citizens, internal stability should be a priority," it said. Opposition politicians including a former prime minister and several party leaders said they had formed a "coordination council" to restore stability and "return to the rule of law." A man holds a Kyrgyz flag during a rally against the parliamentary election results, in the capital Bishkek. Mass protests in the capital and other cities broke out after authorities announced early results of Sunday's poll. Opposition protesters say the vote, dominated by parties close to President Sooronbai Jeenbekov, was rigged. Protesters stormed the government headquarters in Bishkek on Monday evening following the election. Police used teargas, water cannons and flashbang grenades to disperse protesters, resulting in 590 injuries and one death. A man stands in a room at the White House building, which houses the country's presidential administration and parliament. Early on Tuesday, following the protests, the Central Election Commission of Kyrgyzstan declared the results of the weekend's election invalid. Opposition supporters rally and wave the Kyrgyz flag outside of the Government Building in Bishkek. Zhanar Akayev of the Ata Meken opposition party was quoted as saying that a "new prime minister and the people's government need to be appointed." Police officers dispersed the crowd with teargas and water cannons. One person was killed and 590 injured, the government reported. The violent crackdown failed to curb the unrest on Bishkek's streets. A demonstrator wearing the national flag raises his first during protests in Bishkek. Supporters of a dozen opposition parties took to the streets to demand the election results be annulled. Firetrucks set out for the government HQ on Tuesday to start clearing up the debris. The Central Asian nation has a history of political volatility; two of its presidents have been forced out amid public protests following elections in the past 15 years. Protesters set fire to a container in front of the government headquarters in Bishkek. President Sooronbai Jeenbekov accused "certain political forces" of trying to "illegally seize power" in the country, and urged people to get off the streets. More to come… lc/msh (AP, Reuters) 