In times past, Ermias Lolekal Molla, an Ethiopian ethnobotanist, used to collect kosso, or African redwood, not far from Ethiopia's capital, Addis Ababa. The bark, leaves and root of the umbrella-shaped tree are commonly used to treat tapeworms and dysentery, in a country where less than half the population has access to clean water. Now, it takes him a couple of days to reach an area of countryside where he can find wild kosso, as the local forest habitat where it once grew has been shrinking as a result of land clearing and deforestation. "These plants are in dire need of conservation attention," Molla told DW, remarking that the species aren't just important for their healing properties, but also in reducing erosion and forming part of an important carbon sink. Kosso is one of at least  60,000 plants and fungi around the globe known to harbor medicinal value. It also belongs to a larger group that risks dying out completely: Over the past four years alone, the number of plants and fungi facing extinction has doubled to 40% . And those are just the species we know about. African redwood, also called kosso, is popularly harvested for its roots in Ethiopia, where dwindling forest habitats are making it scarcer  One of the most commonly used chemotherapy treatments, taxol, is derived from the bark of the Pacific yew tree  Researchers like Molla say that without these medicinal plants and fungi, the future of human health is seriously at risk. More than one-third of modern drugs are derived either directly or indirectly from natural products, such as plants, microorganisms and animals, and between 60 and 80% of antibiotics and anticancer drugs originate from chemical compounds found in the natural world. Far from being the preserve of niche-healing traditions, medicinal plants and fungi are fundamental to modern pharmacology, says Joao Calixto, a retired professor of pharmacology and the director of the not-for-profit Center of Innovation and Preclinical Testing in Brazil (CIEnP). "If we look at the history of the development of modern medicine, it was almost entirely based on the study of medicinal plants and microorganisms — especially for making anti-infective agents," Calixto told DW. Morphine and codeine, some of the most widely used painkillers, for example, were derived from the poppy flower. Paclitaxel (taxol) is a commonly used chemotherapy drug from the bark of the Pacific yew tree. Penicillin, one of the first antibiotics, derives from a mold. And cholesterol-lowering drugs are based on properties found in fungus. They are a vital resource for a global pharmaceutical industry valued at around $1.1 trillion (€931 billion), and a global trade in aromatic and medicinal plant species worth $3.3. billion. Some of the world's most widely used painkillers, morphine and codeine, are derived from the flowering poppy plant  The global pharmaceutical industry is valued at around $1 trillion, while the herbal medicine market is estimated to be worth $3.3 billion While concerned conservationists such as Danna Leaman, chair of the IUCN Red List of endangered medicinal plant species, have been sounding the alarm on unsustainable extraction for decades, she says that is only part of the story when it comes to their decline. "Habitat loss is the primary threat facing these species," Leaman told DW. Deforestation and land clearing to make way for agriculture and the expansion of cities, in biodiverse-rich areas like Brazil, Ethiopia, India and North America, have decimated large swathes of forest and wild habitats where these plants and fungi are found. "There has been very, very little awareness of the real and potential threat to the sourcing of these species that these pharmaceutical and herbal companies rely on and that people rely on for their health," Leaman said. Given that 80% of these plants are harvested in the wild from rapidly depleting sources, one seemingly logical solution is to bring more of them into cultivation. Land clearing and deforestation are a key drivers of the loss of plant and fungi species  Brazil is home to the greatest biodiversity in the world, with an estimated 50,000 plant species — many of which are facing extinction due to deforestation While that is effective and necessary for a small percentage of the world's high-demand medicinal plants, such as echinacea, Leaman says it is both risky and unrealistic to propose cultivation as a panacea for rising demand and dwindling natural environments. "If you think of the devastation the conversion of native habitats to agriculture has created, taking so many species that are native to forests and other wild habitats into cultivation would create even more pressure on those habitats," Leaman said, adding that the time and effort it takes to research and rear these species is "enormous" and completely at odds with the current level of global attention being paid to medicinal plants and fungi. That's not to mention the problems inherent in relying on a limited genetic sample of one species, especially in light of how poorly their wild relatives are looked after, Leaman says. Aside from their direct value to human health, many of these medicinal plants play a crucial role in supporting biodiversity — a key determinant of human health. Prunus africana or the African cherry, a tree native to the mountainous regions of tropical Africa and Madagascar, is one such "keystone" species — responsible for helping a whole host of other plants, animals and organisms to thrive in the immediate ecosystem. Harvested for the bark's medicinal role in treating prostate problems, it's also an endangered plant species. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3f1T4 As the United Nations recently outlined in its landmark assessment of biodiversity, which showed the world had failed to fully achieve any of the 20 global biodiversity targets set 10 years ago, a healthy human population is utterly dependent on healthy, biodiverse-rich ecosystems. In damaging these ecosystems and the medicinal plant species that live in them, not only is access to raw materials for drug discovery, biotechnology and medical models diminished, but the conditions are created for the spillover of viruses from wildlife to humans. Protecting healthy environments is "absolutely essential" to the discovery of potential medicines, Leaman says. "Where is the next leukemia treatment going to come from? And the treatment for COVID19?" "It determines our being able to have access not only to the sources of medicine that we rely on and know of, but the sources we don’t know about yet," she said. There are around 3 trillion trees on Earth, according to a global study led by researchers from Yale University. That includes over 60,000 known tree species, more than half of which are endemic — meaning they're found in only one country. Brazil, Colombia and Indonesia are home to the most tree species. The bad news: there are 46% fewer trees today than at the start of human civilization. Trees clearly can't uproot themselves and move, but their population centers can shift over time in response to climate pressures. A study looking at 86 trees species between 1980 and 2015 in the eastern United States found that 73% moved west, where rainfall is increasing. Others headed to the poles, apparently to escape heat. On average, they moved about 16 kilometers (10 miles) per decade. Trees not only give us shade, they can also mitigate extreme temperatures by transpiring — absorbing the sun's radiation and releasing water into the air through their leaves. Urban areas can become sweltering "heat islands" in summer. But a 2019 study from the US found that tree canopy cover of 40% or more could lower summer temperatures in cities by as much as 5 degrees Celsius. Trees draw CO2 from the atmosphere and are therefore crucial in the fight against climate change. They can also use their leaves to filter particulate matter and toxic gases like nitrogen dioxide and sulphur dioxide from the air. A recent UK study found that silver birch, yew and elder trees could reduce particles at rates of 79%, 71% and 70% respectively. Trees can reduce our stress levels and help us feel happier and healthier. Several studies have shown that spending time in nature, or even just looking at trees or flowers through a window, can lower blood pressure, boost the immune system, improve sleep, reduce depression and anxiety, and even speed up recovery after surgery. Forests have their own communication systems — almost like an underground internet —that allows trees to swap nutrients and send warnings about drought or disease. They interact via networks of soil fungi, known as mycorrhizal networks. Research by ecologist Suzanne Simard has shown that paper birch (pictured) and fir trees use this system to send water, carbon and nutrients back and forth. Trees can't flee if their leaves are being devoured by a hungry herbivore. But what they can do is release chemicals — volatile organic compounds — into the air to warn nearby members of the same species there's a threat in the area. Studies show that other trees respond by boosting their own production of anti-herbivore toxins, which, in the case of acacias (pictured), makes their leaves bitter. When besieged by bugs or parasites, some species, including apple trees, and tomato, cucumber and lima bean plants, release compounds into the air to alert the attackers' predator. Most often, these predators are insects. But a European study showed that trees infested with caterpillars also put out chemical signals to attract caterpillar-eating birds, such as the great tit (pictured). Trees are the oldest living organisms on Earth. One individual can survive hundreds, even thousands of years. According to the OldList, an officially dated record of ancient trees, the oldest known living individual is a bristlecone pine in California's White Mountains. Named Methuselah, it's around 4,850 years old. Its exact location is kept a secret to protect it from vandals. A photograph can't really do justice to the world's tallest trees: redwoods. The tallest known living specimen is a coast redwood called Hyperion measuring 115.85 meters (380 feet) — more than Big Ben or the Statue of Liberty. The giant, discovered in 2006 in California, is believed to be several hundred years old. California is also home to a giant sequoia named General Sherman, thought to be the biggest living tree when it comes to volume. It stretches to a height of 83.8 meters and is 7.7 meters in diameter. The title of the world's widest tree goes to the Arbol del Tule (pictured), a Montezuma cypress in the Mexican state of Oaxaca. It has a diameter of 11.6 meters and circumference of 42 meters. Author: Natalie Muller  