French prosecutors said Tuesday they have opened an investigation into alleged match-fixing in a French Open women's doubles match. The probe for "fraud in an organized group" and "active and passive corruption in sport" concerns the first-round match on September 30 between Romanian pair Andreea Mitu and Patricia Maria Tig and Yana Sizikova of Russia playing with US player Madison Brengle, according to news agency AFP. German newspaper Welt reported at the weekend that the manipulation may have had to do with hundreds of thousands of euros. Sports journal l'Equipe also reported that the probe was being launched. According to their report, videos of parts of the match looked like "slapstick," with the players often committing unforced errors. Read more: US Open: Novak Djokovic disqualified after hitting line judge with tennis ball The investigation was opened on October 1 because of suspicions about the rigged match at Roland Garros, but the information was only publicly announced on Tuesday. This concerns specifically the fifth game of the second set, a shutout won by the Romanian duo after two double faults by the Russian Sizikova. The French Open is still going on and will end on October 11. ed/aw (AFP, Reuters) Will Jürgen Klopp be able to celebrate a title win in 2020? His Liverpool side are all-but-uncatachable at the top of the table but the league has been suspended, with the coronavirus pandemic hitting the UK particularly hard. There are still 92 matches to be played and though clubs have resumed training it's not yet clear when 'Project Restart' will kick in. Even the heavy hitters have had to make way for the virus. The WBC title fight between, Brit Dillian Whyte (left) and the Russia's Alexander Povetkin, scheduled for the beginning of May, has been postponed until July 4. But another title fight, between Tyson Fury and Deontay Wilder, is scheduled to take place at the end of the year. Full throttle from the start of July? Formula 1 is planning its comeback for the Austrian Grand Prix in Spielberg on July 5. The race weekend is to take place without spectators. After ten races have been postponed or canceled, Spielberg would become the start of the Formula 1 year. Former world champion Damon Hill expects "the largest TV audience in Formula 1 history". We must wait and see. The NBA interrupted their season after a player tested positive for COVID-19 in March. Now it will continue "at the end of July", according to NBA spokesman Mike Bass. But with a difference. Disney, which holds TV rights to the NBA, is set to host the league at Disney World. All games and training sessions are to take place there in isolation and with a strict hygiene plan. Mickey Mouse league? With the Olympics postponed until 2021, athletes like Germany's Konstanze Klosterhalfen (center) have been denied their biggest stage. But the Diamond League promises some income at least, albeit not as much as usual. The series will be shortened to eleven meetings and is to start in Monaco and end on November 17 at a yet-to-be-determined venue in China. "It is what makes cycling so popular," says cyclist John Degenkol. The Tour de France comes to the smallest village putting its the heroes within reach. But scenes like these are unthinkable at the moment. The Tour, which has been postponed by around two months, could take place without spectators to prevent a new wave of infection. Is the plan feasible? Doubtful. Istanbul hopes to experience football drama once more. The Ataturk Olympic Stadium was the stage of one of the most memorable Champions League finals, when Liverpool overcame a 3-0 deficit to beat AC Milan on penalties in 2005. Europe's biggest club competition is returning to Turkey in 2020. This year's final will reportedly take place on August 29, though UEFA have not confirmed the date. The Ironman in Hawaii? Moved to February. The postponement could be beneficial for the ITU Long Distance Triathlon in Almere, Netherlands. The event has been in the shadows of other Triathlon events for a long time. Now the time has come for the Dutch venue. Besides the Ironman distance, organizers are looking for competitors in the duathlon, aquathlon and the cross-triathlon. Ooh la la! After the cancellation of Wimbledon, the French Open captivated the tennis world with its date announcement alone. The new date is just after the US Open, a big strain on the athletes. Now a date adjustment is being discussed. The question remains what will happen in the venues. TV contracts have priority, and the matches could take place in front of empty stands. Though a date for a restart hasn't been set, there have been lots of changes: the biggest ice hockey league in the world has implemented strict rules to prevent an outbreak of the coronavirus on the ice. Team quarantines, training in small groups, two COVID-19 tests per week — and only one venue, which has yet to be determined. The World Championship in Switzerland has already been canceled. "I would much rather they delay it until 2021 than play ... without fans," said Rory McIlroy. "Having a Ryder Cup without fans is not a Ryder Cup." But even professional golf has to accept the reality of sports business: the show must go on. Thus there are discussions to play the prominent golf tournament at Whistling Straights in the US state of Wisconsin without fans. Hardly any city in the world was hit harder by the coronavirus pandemic than New York. But New Yorkers have proven more than once that they can fight on. That's why organizers of the New York marathon have said: "The 50th running will go ahead as planned." Marathons in Boston (September 14) and London (October 4) will also take place later this year, while the Berlin marathon has been canceled. Author: Joscha Weber   