German Finance Minister Olaf Scholz said there was a good chance Germany's economy could return to pre-crisis levels in 2022 or even earlier, in an interview with US broadcaster CNBC. "If I look to the data, we could be quite confident about the future, we have an increase in economic growth, we will have a chance that we go back to the situation we had before the crisis in the beginning of (20)22, possibly a bit earlier. So there is a good development that we can see," he said. "But we have to understand that we all depend on each other, and this is even so for the economy." Coronavirus lockdowns imposed to curb infection rates have shocked the European and global economies, hurting growth and business sentiment. A survey released Tuesday showed investor confidence in Germany dropped sharply in October amid a resurgence in virus cases. The Mannheim-based ZEW institute's monthly barometer measuring economic sentiment dropped to 56.1 points in Europe's largest economy from a 20-year high of 77.4 points in September. Read more: Opinion: Germany's economy can't count on bouncing back fast Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3glE6 In July, European leaders agreed on the bloc's seven-year budget and a pandemic recovery fund that will provide struggling member states with much-needed cash. However, both packages, worth €1.8 trillion ($2.12 trillion), must still be approved by EU lawmakers. Talks on the funds are expected to resume in the coming days. The deal would then need to be ratified by the bloc's 27 national parliaments. Many sectors rely on EU funds, and there are fears that delays in finalizing an agreement could further damage the EU economy. Scholz told CNBC the EU now had a real opportunity to create a closer fiscal union, adding that the solidarity member states had shown to each other was important. "We see that the fact that Europe is acting together is really helping the economy, just by announcing it. We are doing it, but it's also helping because anyone understands that Europe is able to fight against the crisis," he said. "I very much support the idea that Europe is stronger and will go stronger out of this crisis." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3fapO The finance minister also expressed hope that member states could approve the budget and recovery funds soon, saying "this is the time for compromise." "I am quite optimistic that we will have the chance to solve all the problems this year so that the money will be used right from the beginning of next year," he said in the interview. Read more: German finance minister defends €96 billion in new debt amid coronavirus Plumbing new depths with each election, the SPD decided to run a realist rather than a radical as their top candidate in 2021. Finance Minister Olaf Scholz, a former mayor of Hamburg, is seen as dry and technocratic. Many in his party say the 62-year-old is unlikely to energize party activists and win their hearts. Bavaria's 53-year-old state premier from the CDU's more conservative Bavarian sister party, the CSU, has profited in opinion polls from his tough line in the fight against the coronavirus. "Bavaria is strong. Bavaria will grow. Bavaria is solid. Bavaria is safe. Here the world is still in order, and it will stay that way," the former journalist said at the beginning of his tenure in 2018. Armin Laschet, a staunch supporter of Angela Merkel, heads Germany's most populous state. Staunch conservatives routinely underestimated the jovial 58-year-old, famous for his belief in integration and compromise. But recently, his liberal non-interventionist instincts have led to him eating his words more than once during the coronavirus crisis. Health Minister Jens Spahn, the Christian Democrats' rising star, has benefitted from the publicity he gained during the coronavirus pandemic. Openly gay, married, still only 40, with unusually strong English skills, Spahn is a more modern Catholic CDU politician than one could have imagined even a few years ago. 50-year-old Robert Habeck, an enthused and passionate speaker, can match the tone and energy of the climate movement in a way many German politicians cannot. But like so many with the gift of the gab, his speeches tend to meander off-topic. Habeck has a Ph.D. in philosophy and was a novelist and children’s author before entering politics almost 20 years ago. At not yet 40, Annalena Baerbock has been a Green Party co-chair since 2018. A jurist with a degree in public international law from the London School of Economics, her supporters see her as a safe pair of hands with a better grasp of detail than Habeck. Her opponents point to her lack of governing or ministerial experience and her occasional gaffes in interviews. Author: Mark Hallam, Rina Goldenberg nm/aw (AFP, Reuters) 