The Belarusian Foreign Ministry said Friday it had compiled a list of people barred from entering Belarus as part of retaliatory sanctions against the European Union. The ministry said it was introducing "counter sanctions" as a "reciprocal" measure after the EU adopted restrictions against members of Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko's regime. Officials in Minsk said they would not disclose which EU officials were targeted. Following the sanctions announcement, the Belarusian government said that it had canceled existing press accreditation of all foreign journalists, who will have to reapply under new rules. Read more: Belarus: EU rejects Lukashenko inauguration as illegitimate Minsk also recalled its ambassadors from Poland and Lithuania for "consultations" and invited the Polish and the Lithuanian ambassadors in Belarus to "follow this example." The rebuke is due to "unambiguously destructive activity" from those countries during the current crisis, according to the Belarusian officials. The Belarusian Foreign Ministry has also asked the two EU countries to reduce staff stationed at their embassies in Minsk. However, neither Poland nor Lithuania intend to cut staff at their embassies in Minsk, Lithuanian Foreign Minister Linas Linkevicius told reporters later on Friday. "We are not going to summon our ambassadors for consultations, and we will definitely not do anything to reduce personnel," he told reporters in Vilnius. "If the advice becomes a request, then we will take appropriate measures." Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3jJji Earlier on Friday, after weeks of deadlock, EU leaders agreed on a sanctions regime in response to a brutal  crackdown on protestersfollowing a controversial election the EU has said was rigged to give Lukashenko 80% of the vote. Some 40 Belarusian officials have been targeted with travel bans and asset freezes, although Lukashenko is not on the list. The officials on the list are those the bloc accuses of falsifying the election outcome and being behind the violent crackdown on protesters in the aftermath of the August 9 nationwide ballot. The Kremlin sprang to the defense of its ally Belarus, criticizing the EU sanctions. "In general we are very, very negative about the sanctions policy... this is more a manifestation of weakness than strength,"  Russian President Vladimir Putin's spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters.  