Local authorities in the eastern Russian city of Petropavlovsk-Kamchatskiy have been warning people against visiting the nearby Khalaktyrsky beach, after surfers complained of partially losing their eyesight and experiencing headaches, fevers and nausea when venturing into the water. "I noticed the ocean had a strange taste and didn’t smell like it usually does. My eyes hurt, I had a dry, scratchy throat and my body itched horribly," Anton Morozov, founder of local surfing school, Snowave, told DW. He and his team first noticed their symptoms in early September, but didn't associate them with the ocean until later in the month, when they reported them to the authorities. Since then, images of dead octopuses, seals, sea urchins and starfish littered along the beach have been shared on social media, with some beachgoers saying dead fish look as as if they have been boiled. The authorities took samples from the ocean, where by the end of September, Morozov said a "yellowish-greenish liquid" had appeared along a 20 to 30-kilometer stretch of the shoreline. Local investigators are now looking into three main reasons for the water pollution, including a toxic spill, volcanic activity in the area and naturally occurring deadly algal blooms, governor of the Kamchatka region, Vladimir Solodov, told a press conference on Monday. Local authorities are currently looking into whether the cause of the contaminated water is natural or human-made Surfers from Snowave Surf School noticed their eyes, throats and bodies were itchy after swimming at Khalaktyrsky beach in early September On a video posted to Instagram, the governor said the situation was normalizing due to the ocean's unique ability to self-regenerate. "As I said, we will push for a full and meticulous investigation of the reasons behind what happened, but now we can observe that the situation has significantly improved in the past few days." The region’s natural resources minister, Alexei Kumarkov, said tests on samples had thus far only detected unusually high levels of the chemical phenol and oil products in the water. However, later on Monday, Russia's Natural Resources Minister said that the pollution was unlikely to be manmade, the RIA news agency reported. Ecology Minister Dmitry Kobylkin said that so far research had only uncovered slightly raised levels of iron and phosphates. He also said that the incident might have been prompted by the stormy conditions recently experienced in the region of eastern Russia. Environmentalist Dmitry Lisitsyn, head of local NGO Sakhalin Environmental Watch, told DW there have been no visible signs of oil on the surface of the water, and the bottom-dwelling sea creatures that have been found dead are not normally linked to oil spills. "Petroleum products are lighter than water — they form a film at the top of the water, which mainly kills birds. Oil products aren't poisonous enough to kill such a huge amount of animals," he said. There is no sign of oil on the dead marine life being washed onto shore Nicky Cariglia, an independent marine pollution advisor, said oil spill events are often "very obvious", and that though in some cases it is possible for spills of very light oil to kill marine animals that live on the sea floor, oil tends to float on the surface of the water. "The first thing you see when you have an oil spill is the presence of oil — whether it’s crude oil or bunker oil or even lighter types of oil," she told DW. As to the high concentrations of phenol in the water, Cariglia said it is not enough to indicate whether the event is a result of human activity or a naturally occurring phenomenon. "High levels of phenol concentration can result from land-based runoff — if there have been, for example, a lot of fires — or from harmful algal blooms, or also from other decomposing organic materials," she said. Lisitsyn is "convinced" the water pollution is linked to a leak of decades-old expired rocket fuel from the Radygino military base located 10 kilometers from Khalaktyrsky beach. Anton Morozov, founder of Snowave surfing school, told DW at least 200 people have visited the beach since he and his team first noticed symptoms Masses of dead sea animals have washed up on the beach's shore, including seals, octopuses, starfish and sea urchins "It’s very likely that the waste disposal site there started to leak, maybe the storage tanks broke and a large amount of rocket fuel was washed into the ocean," Lisitsyn told DW, speculating that the noxious liquid could have been washed into the ocean during a cyclone that hit the area on September 9. He says it is now up to authorities to launch a thorough investigation into the source of the contamination, which includes determining whether there is an ongoing leak. "The military base needs to be examined, as do the storage locations and all the streams of water that flow down from it into the ocean," he said, adding that the components of rocket fuel are carcinogenic and that if it were spilling uncontained into the ocean, it could have long-term effects — not just for marine life. "They are very harmful to people. I wouldn't recommend walking along this beach or breathing in the fumes there." With additional reporting from DW's Moscow bureau. The vast majority of the Earth's water is found in the ocean. But only a fragment of the planet's water – roughly 0.01% – flows through its rivers. And without these rivers, many other sources of surface water, like lakes and wetlands, would run dry. This is becoming a problem with climate change, and it's posing a threat to humans and animals alike in varied and, sometimes, unexpected ways. The dramatic effects of climate change aren’t a recent phenomenon. Lake Chad, shown here in 1963, 1973, 1987 and 1997, has shrunk from roughly 25,000 km2 to under 2,000 km2 over the past 60 years. Long blamed on dams and irrigation, researchers have found that its water loss also comes from fluctuating temperatures which have negatively impacted its second most important river, the Komadugu Yobe. Lake Chad is a stark example of how climate change is forcing people to search for new sources of water and food. The region has seen a rise in tensions as farmers and cattle herders move towards richer land. But other continents just now feeling the pressure of climate change are starting to see their fish stocks unsuited to warmer waters – and their waters evaporating in the heat. Europe is one of these places. In the summer of 2018, the mighty Rhine River went from a powerful current to a gentle stream when temperatures soared past 30C (86F) and drought left the otherwise lush, rainy habitat too low to accommodate more than one lane of shipping. Other regions of the world are also coming to terms with what they once considered reliable water sources, like glaciers. Known as the world's water towers for their ability to reliably store large amounts of snow and ice, glaciers supply nearly 2 billion people with water. Experts fear the Himalayas, seen here, will lose a third of their volume by the end of the century. Farmers in the Indus River Basin, pictured above, are dependent on glacier melt from the Himalayas for crops like rice and cotton. They're part of a larger river basin in South Asia, which includes the Ganges and Brahmaptura Rivers. In total, these three waterways sustain roughly 129 million farmers and a total of 900 million residents with water. Unprecedented wildfires across the globe, as seen here in Australia, have been yet another side effect of climate change. The aftermath of the fires could prove toxic for Australia's most important watershed, the Murray-Darling water basin. Ash washed into the rivers that feed into the basin threaten to turn the water toxic for the 2.6 million Australians, not to mention many native species. It's not just ash and sediment from wildfires that can choke up the water. Heavier rainfall associated with extreme weather in the US, has been sweeping more runoff pollution from farms, for example, into the rivers, which then carry it to the open sea. Algal blooms like this one off of the coast of New York is one result. Another result is a dead zone, or an area deprived of oxygen by pollution. In fact, nitrogen pollution has also become a big problem for the Mississippi River, which runs through many US states. Besides a higher volume of nitrogen being washed into the water through flooding, increasingly powerful hurricanes connected to climate change are hurting the river's wetlands, which protect it from storm surges. Author: Kathleen Schuster