Democratic vice presidential hopeful Kamala Harris and sitting Vice President Mike Pence sparred over coronavirus, the economy and the environment in Salt Lake City on Wednesday night, but no clear victor was able to emerge. Both presidential candidates tweeted out messages of support following the relatively civil debate, with President Donald Trump claiming that his running mate had "WON BIG," while Democratic nominee Joe Biden told Kamala Harris that she had "made us all proud tonight." Read more: Opinion: A chaotic and depressing non-debate Although vice-presidential debates normally play a less significant role in the run-up to the US election, with the recent outbreaks of COVID-19 in the White House and the age of the two presidential candidates, there was keen interest in the outcome of the clash. DW's Peter Rölle-Dahl explained that both candidates were in a unique position to potentially take up the presidency. "Biden, should he be elected, would be 78 when he takes office, which would be the oldest-ever president. He has also said he wants to be a one-term president, which obviously leaves the gate wide open for vice-presidential nominee Kamala Harris," Rölle-Dahl explained. "Trump would be 75 if reelected, and let's not forget, he still has the virus. So either of these vice-presidential candidates — Kamala Harris and Mike Pence — could take over. It's a much more likely possibility than we've seen in decades," Rölle-Dahl added.  Both candidates brought balance In comparison to the raucous debate between Biden and Trump, the two remained civil. Pence was warned several times for going over his allotted time, but the clash had little in the way of surprises. Diego Sanchez, a US voter in the city of Cincinnati, told DW Washington bureau chief Ines Pohl that he thought Pence did a "better job of demonstrating his stability than the president." Mike Pence and Kamala Harris on the stage before the debate Alicia Crawford, another voter, also told Pohl she believed that Kamala Harris "balanced out Biden's more passive energy. Crawford added that she considered Harris' performance a success for the Democrats who want to show their base that they can take on the larger personality of the sitting president. The Democrat's main point of attack was over the government's response to the coronavirus pandemic, lambasting the coronavirus task force, of which Pence is the head, saying that the "administration have forfeited their right to reelection." Pence was able to respond quickly saying: "Our nation has gone through a very challenging time this year. But I want the American people to know that from the very first day President Donald Trump has put the health of America first." However, the Republican vice president was not as able to swat away an unexpected intruder that caused perhaps the biggest stir of the night. Pence seemed unaware of a fly that landed on his head during the debate, but many of those watching were all too aware of the insect stealing the show. A Twitter account for the fly rapidly gained tens of thousands of followers. ed,jsi,ab/sms (AP, AFP, Reuters, dpa)  