Top US infectious diseases expert Dr. Anthony Fauci said Tuesday that the recent string of coronavirus infections among White House staff could have been prevented. When asked by American University's Kennedy Political Union about how to discuss preventative actions with people who believed the pandemic was a hoax, Dr. Fauci pointed out what happened at the White House. "That is a reality, right there. And every day that goes by more people are popping up that are infected. It's not a hoax." Dr. Fauci has long been an advocate of wearing masks to prevent the spread of the virus. Sri Lanka has banned all public gatherings as cases spiked in the Indian Ocean nation. More than 800 infections have been linked to a garment factory, and more than 1,000 people have been ordered to quarantine. The cluster of cases emerged on Monday, one day after the country reported its first community infection in two months. South Korea reported 114 new cases, its first daily jump of over 100 cases in one week. Health officials have warned that infections will likely rise due to the increased travel during the Chuseok harvest holiday, which ended over the weekend. More than 90 of the new cases were in the capital, Seoul, which has seen a resurgence since Mid-August. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) said it will take years for Mexico's economy to recover from the pandemic. The IMF said the country will see its economy shrink by 9% in 2020, a slight improvement from an earlier projection of a 10.5% fall. It forecast that the economy will grow by 3.5% in 2021 and about 2% thereafter. "Based on these projections, employment, income and poverty will take several years to return to pre-pandemic levels," read an IMF report. US President Donald Trump, while still being treated for the virus, abruptly ended talks with Democrats on an economic aid package for Americans reeling from the pandemic instead saying he would present a plan after being reelected. Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden voiced his criticism, tweeting, "The president turned his back on you." American public broadcaster PBS revealed that medical supply chains failed in the country, which led to more deaths from the coronavirus. The investigation by the Associated Press and PBS program "Frontline" showed link after link between raw materials and overseas manufacturers fell apart. The investigation showed politicians and major companies ignored warnings about the country's overdependence on foreign manufacturing and a lack of adequate preparation at home. Spanish health minister Salvador Illa said there have been some important differences between the first and second waves of infections in his country. He said the death rate during the first wave was about 12%. That rate has fallen to 1% in the second wave. Also, authorities could only detect about 10% of coronavirus cases during the first round. That number is now between 70-80%. Nearly 4.8 million people in and around the capital Madrid are under restrictions of movement due to the second wave. kbd/sms (AP, AFP, Reuters)