Germany has become the sixth European country to pass the grim mark of 10,000 COVID-19 deaths. The country, which avoided the most severe outbreak of the first wave of the virus earlier this year, also recorded nearly 15,000 new infections on Saturday. The head of the World Health Organization, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, has warned of tough times ahead for the countries in the Northern Hemisphere. "The next few months are going to be very tough and some countries are on a dangerous track," said the WHO director-general at a press conference on Friday, adding that the region was at a "critical juncture." He called for immediate action, warning of "an exponential increase in cases" in many nations. Maria Van Kerkhove, WHO's technical head on coronavirus, said the organization recorded about 445,000 new cases in the past 24 hours, nearly half of them in Europe. She said: "the capacity for ICU is going to be reached in the coming weeks" in many cities around Europe. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3kNBB Germany has reached the grim milestone of 10,000 deaths from coronavirus since the start of the pandemic, according to figures released by the country's Robert Koch Institute (RKI) — the government body responsible for disease control and prevention. The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Germany increased by 14,714 to 418,005, the RKI reported. It's the highest number of daily new infections in the country. Chancellor Angela Merkel urged people in Germany again to stay at home and reduce socializing as much as possible. "We are not powerless against the virus, our behavior determines how strongly and how quickly it spreads. And the order of the day for all of us is to reduce contacts. Meet a lot fewer people…please stay at home whenever possible," Merkel said in her weekly video podcast. "If we all obey [to social distancing] we will all together survive this enormous challenge posed by the virus,'' she added. In Poland, the president, Andrzej Duda, tested positive for coronavirus, Blazej Spychalski, the presidential minister, announced on Twitter on Saturday. "The president yesterday was tested for the presence of coronavirus. The result turned out to be positive. The president is fine. We are in constant contact with the relevant medical services," Spychalski said. A hospital in the Netherlands began sending COVID-19 patients to Germany to lessen the strain on the hospital. The Flevo Hospital in Almere, 30 kilometers (20 miles) east of Amsterdam, sent a patient to Germany via helicopter. This was the first airlift of this kind from the Netherlands to Germany since the pandemic began. Read more: Coronavirus trend: The pandemic is far from over Spain is considering re-implementing a "state of alarm" which would allow regional governments to implement drastic restrictions, as the number of new infections continues to rise. Eight of the country's 17 autonomous regions have asked the central government to declare a state of alarm, newspapers El Pais and La Vanguardia reported. The reports come just a day after Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez warned of "very hard months" ahead and called for greater discipline in containing the virus, in order to avoid another drastic lockdown. Spain, one of the European countries hardest hit by the pandemic, has recorded over 1 million infections and a death toll of nearly 35,000. Read more: Spain's overcrowding exacerbates coronavirus pandemic In Italy, the Campania region has said it would impose a lockdown to stem the flow of the coronavirus. Campania has already closed most of its schools and imposed a nighttime curfew. Police used tear gas in Naples on Friday evening to disrupt hundreds of people protesting against the push to introduce tougher measures. Daily cases in Italy have jumped sevenfold since the beginning of October. Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte said he wanted to avoid another national lockdown that could hurt the fragile economy, but said regional leaders can establish their own rules when it comes to lockdowns. In Bulgaria, Prime Minister Boyko Borissov and three ministers in his government will stay in isolation after a deputy minister they were in touch with tested positive for the virus on Friday. Bulgarian Prime Minister Boyko Borissov went into isolation Friday after a minister tested positive "I am waiting for the orders of the health authorities and until then I will be in self-isolation. I was last in contact with him five days ago," Borissov wrote in a post on his Facebook page. Borissov said he tested negative from a test he took earlier Friday before meeting with Keith Krach, the US undersecretary of state. Cases in Bulgaria have spiked since the start of the month, with the country recording 1,595 new cases on Friday. Health authorities have banned planned operations in regions where infections have exceeded 120 per 100,000 people and demanded hospitals ensure 10% of their bed capacity be available for COVID-19 patients. United States Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden said Friday that if he is elected to the White House he would mandate that the coronavirus vaccine, once approved, be free of charge to all Americans. "Once we have a safe and effective vaccine, it has to be free to everyone — whether or not you're insured," said Biden during a speech, 11 days before election day. US President Donald Trump has also said a vaccine should be free to Americans. Pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca said Friday that it has resumed its US trial of an experimental COVID-19 vaccine. The trial was halted on September 6 after a report of a serious neurological illness in a patient during the company's UK trial. The drugmaker resumed the trial after the US Food and Drug Association, which monitors the manufacturing of vaccines, said it was safe to do so. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3kKBi Temporary halts on drug and vaccine testing are very common, as research involving thousands of participants means some are likely to fall ill. AstraZeneca's US study involves 30,000 people, with some getting the real vaccine and others receiving a placebo. Final stage testing had already resumed in the UK, Brazil, South Africa and Japan. Read more: US could see half a million coronavirus deaths by end of winter, study warns In Brazil, regulator Anvisa has authorized a biomedical center to import 6 million doses on the Sinovac coronavirus vaccine, despite President Jair Bolsonaro saying the country would not buy the Chinese vaccine. The product is currently in phase 3 trials, which are being conducted with the help of a local university. It has not yet been approved for wide use in Brazil. Pharmaceutical company Uniao Quimica said Friday that it signed an agreement with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to start producing Russia's Sputnik V vaccine next month. This is the second agreement to produce the vaccine in Brazil, where four other vaccines are already being tested. The Brazilian state of Bahia also signed an agreement to conduct phase 3 trials on the Sputnik V vaccine, and plans to buy 50 million doses for the northeastern Brazilian market. Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3kMCG IranAir, the flag carrier airline for Iran, is restarting European flights after they were suspended due to the pandemic. A spokesman told state news agency IRNA that scheduled flights to England, France, Austria, Germany and Italy will resume. kbd/sms (AP, dpa, AFP, Reuters)  