Polish President Andrzej Duda has tested positive for COVID-19 as the country faces a surge in new infections. Spokesman Blazej Spychalski announced the news on Saturday and said Duda, an ally of the ruling nationalist Law and Justice party, was "feeling fine." There was no immediate word on how the diagnosis of the 48-year-old conservative leader would affect government operations. Read more: Coronavirus digest: Deaths in Germany pass 10,000 While it was initially unclear when Duda was infected, he attended an investment forum in the Estonian capital, Tallinn, on Monday, where he met with Bulgarian President Rumen Radev, who is now in quarantine after having been directly exposed to the virus. "The president is a young man, I think that he will get past the infection without problems," Deputy Health Minister Waldemar Kraska told private radio station RMF. He added that he expects that all people who had contact with Duda in recent days will be quarantined. Poland is facing a spike in new infections, with cases hitting a daily record of more than 13,600 on Friday. The country of 38 million people has reported more than 228,000 cases since the start of the pandemic, and a death toll of 4,172. Poland went into a "red zone" lockdown on Saturday, resulting in a two-week partial closure of primary schools and restaurants. During the lockdown, restaurants will only be able to serve takeaway meals. Fitness clubs and pools will also be closed. The government has also sent text messages to Poles, calling on them to stay home and help elderly people. Under the new measures, gatherings have been limited to five people, with weddings banned and new restrictions placed on the numbers of people allowed to enter shops, take public transport and attend religious services. The country has seen large protests following a ruling that limits abortions. Meanwhile, officials are building additional temporary medical facilities and transforming the national stadium into a field hospital in Warsaw. The ruling nationalist party has faced criticism in recent days from the opposition that the country is not prepared for the second coronavirus wave. Recent opinion polls have also shown a drop in support for both the governing Law and Justice party and Duda. Polish President Andrzej Duda tested positive for coronavirus, as the country faces a surge in new infections in October. Duda, an ally of the ruling nationalist Law and Justice Party, was "feeling fine" at the time of the diagnosis. The day before officials announced his infection, the number of new cases in the country of 38 million hit a daily record of more than 13,600. Donald Trump, who once said COVID-19 tests were "beautiful," tested positive for the coronavirus, along with his wife Melania, soon after senior aide Hope Hicks also contracted the virus. Trump previously claimed experts should consider using powerful light and injecting disinfectants to treat the novel virus. It is not known whether he will be using this form of treatment for his own infection. The 83-year-old former Italian premier tested positive for the virus and is believed to be asymptomatic, his party announced September 2. Two of Berlusconi's children as well as his 30-year-old girlfriend are also COVID-19 positive. The ex-premier tested positive after vacationing along Sardinia's coastline, where Italy's rich and famous have been known to flaunt mask policies. Brazil's president, who has repeatedly downplayed the severity of the pandemic, contracted the virus in July. He was criticized for ignoring the safety measures recommended by health experts both before and after his diagnosis, including shaking hands and hugging supporters in crowds. His wife and sons have also tested positive. Sophie Gregoire Trudeau, wife of Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, tested positive for coronavirus after returning from the United Kingdom in mid-March. Her husband later announced that he had gone into self-isolation. In late March, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson came down with a coronavirus infection that landed him in the hospital for several days. Johnson spent a week at a hospital in London and three nights in intensive care where he was given oxygen and observed around the clock. He was released in mid-April and credited hospital staff with saving his life. Michel Barnier, the EU's chief Brexit negotiator, tested positive for the virus in March. The top Brussels official sent out a tweet in English as well as French saying he was doing well and "in good spirits." He added: "I am following all the necessary instructions, as is my team." Belarus's embattled President Lukashenko told military officials on July 28 that he had survived an "asymptomatic" COVID-19 infection "on his feet," days before his contentious re-election. The claim met skepticism given its timing. He initially dismissed fears about the pandemic as a "psychosis" and went as far as suggesting cures such as drinking vodka, taking saunas and playing ice hockey. Bolivia's interim president Jeanine Anez announced on July 10 that she had the virus. "I feel well, I feel strong, I am going to keep working remotely from my isolation, and I want to thank all the Bolivians who are working to help us in this health crisis," the leader tweeted at the time. The president of Honduras spent time being treated at a military hospital after falling ill with coronavirus in June. He received specialized care including receiving medicines via an intravenous drip. His wife and two presidential aids also tested positive. Hernandez left hospital in early July after his symptoms improved. The Guatemalan president told local radio on September 18 that he had tested positive for the virus. The 64-year-old, who has multiple sclerosis and uses canes to walk, said his symptoms were mild. The government said Giammattei plans on monitoring his health and continuing official duties from isolation. Author: Rebecca Staudenmaier lc/sms (AFP, Reuters, AP)  